Order of the Secretary of the Ncny to Lieutenant Thomas, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. storeship Falmouth, to protect California steamers.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 19, 1861.

	Sin:	It is rumored that a piratical expedition is on foot to proceed
to the isthmus for the purpose of seizing the California steamers with
their treasure; that a schooner has already been chartered to convey
the expedition to Aspinwall, where they will be clandestinely landed
and make their attack after the treasure shall have been put on board
the steamer. There may not be foundation for this rumor. You will,
however, be vigilant, and if necessary be prompt to use all the means
at your command for the protection of the California steamers and
their treasure, or other property of citizens of the United States.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
I. TOUCEY,
Secretary of the Navy.
Lieutenant CHARLES THOMAS,
Commanding U. S. Storeship Faimouth,
Aspinwall, New Grenada.



Report of Lieutenant Thomas, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. storeship
Falmouth, of readiness to act in protection of California steamers.

U. S. STORESHIP FALMOUTH,
Aspinwall, N G., February 4, 1861.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the 19th ultimo, informing me it was rumored that a piratical expedi-
tion was on foot to proceed to the isthmus for the purpose of seizing
the California steamers,with their treasure. I shall hold myself in
readiness to act with the means at my command, should occasion re-
quire it. Should an outbreak occur here which might involve the
pro~)erty of citizens of the United States it would be necessary to
land an armed ferce, and in view of such an emergency I would very


Page 4

4	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

respectfully suggest the propriety of having this ship supplied with a
guard of marines and one field piece, which could be easily landed,
and, if necessary, brought into immediate and effective use.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHAS. THOMAS,
Lieutenant, Commanding.
Hon. I. TOUCEY,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Flag-Officer Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. naval forces,
Mediterranean Sea, relative to disturbances at Messina, Italy.

U.	S. PLA~SHIP RIcHMoND,
Messina, March 2, 18G1.
	SIR:	In my dispatch of the 15th ultimo (No. 27) I stated that as soon
as intelligence was received of the fall of Gaeta the citadel of Messina
was summoned to surrender by the Sardinian commanding general,
General Chiabura. This demand was most peremptorily refused by
General Pergola, the commandant of the citadel.
	On the 25th ultimo a large Sardinian frigate, bearing the flag of
Admiral Persano, arrived and anchored in the outer roadstead. The
following night General Cialdini arrived from Gaeta and took up his
quarters in the royal palace at Messina. The day after, another sum-
mons was sent to General Pergola, who answered as before, adding that
he would defend the citadel left in his care by the King of Naples to
the last extremity. Upon this General Cialdini commenced throwing
up fieldworks some distance from the citadel, and on the morning of
the 28th the Sardinian frigate Victor Emanuel steered directly into the
harbor and landed 1,500 troops and munitions of war within half musket
shot of the citadel. In the afternoon the several foreign consuls received
a notice from General Pergola that, as General Cialdini had broken
through the convention formerly established between the parties by
taking the offensive and preparing batteriesq he should commence
hostilities in twenty-four hours after the receipt of his letter. When
this notice was received I was on shore, and on returning on board at
4 p. m. I found Admiral Persano waiting to see me. He and General
Cialdini had received notices from General Pergola that he would com-
mence hostilities at sunset that day. I found on my table a letter
addressed to me from General Pergola, just received, giving me the same
notice which was given to the consuls. Several attempts were made by
the foreign consuls to restore affairs to their former position, but with-
out effect. As the time given was not sufficient to remove the ships in
harbor to a place of safety, I addressed a letter to General Pergola
requesting that the time might be extended, which he refused to comply
with. As I did not receive General Pergolas letter until 4 oclock in the
afternoon, there was but little more time that day than to notify those
who had property exposed to place it in safety. The following day
(yesterday), soon after the time specified, the Prench man-of-war left the
inner harbor and some of the merchant vessels were removed ; most of
them, however, remained. Just before 6 p. m. the citadel fired four
heavy guns toward the south of the town, and this morning, at about
11 a. in., a Sardinian steamer was fired at when passing the light-house
battery

Page 5

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	5

	The city is in the greatest consternation and all leaving who can, as
it is believed that General Fergola has had an order from Francis IL to
level the city of Messina .with his shot and shells before he surrenders,
which he has the power to do.
	During the day our boats have been employed in assisting Americans
and other neutrals, and at this moment every vessel is out of the harbor
except the English frigate Terrible and this ship. As we lie directly
between the batteries and the city, the inhabitants consider themselves
partially free from bombardment; but as soon as a gun is fired from the
heights back of the city, which General Cialdini may do at any moment,
the cannonade will commence.
	I do not know hoxv far we are justified iii remaining so long after the
notice given is l)ast, but, as the batteries at the citadel will not probably
fire so long as Cialdini remains quiet, we are the means of protecting
the city and giving the inhabitants more time to secure themselves and
property.
	Sunday morning, March 3.We are still at our anchorage within the
harbor, where we will remain until there is a probability of a cross-fire
near us, when I shall run into the outer anchorage. A large number
of Sardinian ships are now lying near the faro, within 3 miles of Mes-
sina, and three others just reported coining in full of troops. As the
mail is about to close I must conclude my letter.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, yours,
CHAS. II. BELL,
Flag- Officer, Commanding U. S. Naval Forces, ]Jilediterranean.
11011. SECRETARY OF THE NAVY,

Washington, D. C.



Further report of Flag- Officer Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. naval
forces, Mediterranean Sea, regarding affairs at Messina, italy.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP RICHMOND,
Near Messina, March 9, 1861.
	SIR: My dispatch No. 32, informing you that we were still at anchor
withiim the harbor of Messina, I was obliged to close to send by the
mail of the 3d instant. About noon of that day I received a communi-
cation, through his aids, from the commandant of the citadel, General
Fergola, to request General Cialdimiis permission to send two of his
(Fergolas) officers to Rome in the mail steamer, which was to leave
the following day, in order to ascertaimi the wishes of Francis II with
regard to that fortress. This apphica~ion, made through Admiral Per-
sano, the commander of the Sardinian fleet, was about to be attended
with success, when information reached General Cialdini that one of
his transports had been sunk by a shot from the citadel. Immediately
a prompt refusal was given. That afternoon a British line-of-battle
ship, the Victor Emanuel, came into the harbor to relieve time Terrible,
which ship took her departure a few hours after. On the morning of
the 4th two aids of General Fergola came on board ~o ascertain the
result of their application. When learning that General Cialdini had
refused to permit them to send to Rome, one of them said, with much
vehemence, It is now only left for us to die like men, with arms in
our hands

Page 6

6	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I was also informed by them that it was now difficult for the officers
to restrain the men, and that a fire might be made upon the town at
any moment. Under these circumstances, and being convinced that
it was not my duty to remain longer, I got under way and steamed out
of the harbor at 2 p. in., immediately followed by the Victor Emanuel.
	On the following day, the 5th, the mail arrived from Civita Veechia,
but brought no letters froni Rome, and it now evidently appears that
it is the intention of Francis II to destroy the city of Messina and sacri
flee the brave men who have so long and faithfully adhered to his
cause. I anchored in the roadstead, about 3,000 yards from the near-
est battery, where we are now moored. For several days following it
has been blowing a gale, with much rain, which has prevented hos-
tile operations. The weather improved this morning, and at half past
2 p. m. the citadel opened upon the batteries of General Cialdini, near
the city, and has continued to fire ever since, the batteries of General
Cialdini returning the fire, but not with much activity, as he is not yet
prepared.
	March 10.During the night the citadel continued to fire on the
town at intervals, which has been kept up until the present moment.
I understand that General Cialdini did not return the fire. I must
now close this comuinnication, as the mail will soon leave.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, yours,
CHAS. H. BELL,
	Flag. Officer, Commanding U. S. Naval Forces, Mediterranean.
Hon. SECRETARY OF THE NAVY,
Washington, D. C.



Report of Flag- Officer Bell, U. S. Nary, commanding U. S. naval forces,
Mediterranean Sea, of attack by Sardinian forces on fort~/ications of
Messina.
U.	S. FLAGSHIP RICHMOND,
Messina, March 16, 1861.
	SIR: In my last communication, dated 10th instant (No. 35), I had
the honor to inform you that the batteries of General Fergola, the
commandant of the citadel of Messina, had commenced firing upon the
Sardinian forces of General Cialdini without any return from the latter
general. This firing was continued night and day without much
apparent effect. Early on the morning of the 12th, Admiral Persano,
the commander of the Sardinian naval forces, got under way with his
screw frigate, the Maria Adelaide, and in company with a line-of-battle
ship and the frigate Victor Emanuelboth screw shipsstood down
toward the citadel and commenced a fire at half past 7 oclock on the
southwestern part of the fortress. At a quarter past meridian General
Cialdini unmasked his batteriesfour erected near the convent of
Noviciata, about 1,800 yards from the citadel; another within less
than 1,000 yards from the Bastione di Blasco, a strong outwork of the
citadel; and a mortar battery some distance in the rear of the latter to
the southwest. The batteries near the Noviciata consisted of about
36 rifled cannon of 7-inch bore, and as they were considerably elevated
above the citadel, they sent a plunging fire of conical shells directly
into the fortress, which, together with the mortar batteries, soon drove
the Neapolitans from the guns mounted en barbette; at the same tim

Page 7

OPERATIONS OP TIlE CtW1SERSU~ON.
1
most of the guns of the Bastione di Blasco were rendered unserviceable
by the battery established so near it.
	It blew a gale of wind at the time which soon drove the line-of-battle
ship and frigate Victor Emanuel, both having but small steam power,
out of gunshot. The Maria Adelaide, however, having full power,
retained her position, and it was a splendid sight to see the gallant
Persano steaming up and down in the height of the gale, with his
beautiful frigate within 500 yards of the citadel, delivering his lire by
divisions. Every man on the sea side of the citadel was driven from
his gun, and, as I have since been informed, after stopping the
embrasures with sand bags, took refuge in the casemates. At 4
oclock some storehouses in the citadel were set on fire by the shells,
and burned vigorously. At half past 5 the citadel hoisted four white
flags, when the firing ceased, and Admiral Persano steamed directly
into the harbor. I immediately sent in a boat with an offer to send
any surgeons on board; w heu in a short time, on the return of 1~he boat,
I was informed that the citadel had refused to surrender, and that the
battle was to be immediately reiiewed. Admiral Persano came out
with his ships and was about commencing a night attack, when Gen-
eral Fergola sent word that he would surrender at discretion, which he
did at 10 oclock that night. Thus, in less than five hours and a half
from the time the batteries of Cialdini were opened, one of the strongest
artificial fortifications ever constructed surrendered at discretion of
the conquerors.
	There were upwards of 4,000 effective men in the works. Had they
been possessed of any courage they could have held out for many
days, but after they retired from their barbette batteries not a gun
was fired from the casemates. In consequence of the elevation of the
batteries of General (Dialdini, and his superior guns, they must have
succumbed at last, for nothing could have withstood the plunging fire
of his rifled cannon, capable of throwing a heavy shell of 50 pounds
ul)wards of 6,000 yards, when placed within less than one-third that
distance. I have since learned that none were killed in the citadel,
and only 7 wounded. Several men were wounded on board the Maria
Adelaide by the bursting of a shell from the citadel.
	On the following day it continued to blow a gale of wind, which pre-
vented my moving, but I returned into the harbor the day after. All
the merchant ships are again moored to the marina, in front of the
city, and everything has the appearance of peace and quietness. I am
happy to say that the city received scarcely any damage. When
General Fergola was firing at the works in the process of construction
by General Cialdini I was in town for a short time, and found those
who remained pursuing their usual avocations as if nothing remarka-
ble was going forward. Everyone seemed to be familiar with the
constant explosion of the guns, and as no damage had been sustained,
none seemed to be feared.
	As a part of the machinery of this ship is still on shore under repair,
I shall take a months provisions from the Susquehanna and send her
to Spezia. The Iroquois is now at Civita Yecchia. I enclose a plan
of the harbor and fortifications of Messina, which will make this com-
munication more intelligible to the Department.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, yours,
CHAS. II. BELL,
Flag- Officer, Commanding U. S. Naval Forces, Mediterranean.
Hon. SECRETARY OF THE NAVY,
Washington, D. C

Page 8

8	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNiON.

Letter from C. Vanderbilt, esq., to the Secretary of the Navy, requesting
that California steamers be provided with Government arms.

OFFICE OF THE ATLANTIC AND PACIFIC STEAMSHIP Co.,
177 West street, New York, April16, 1861.
	SIR: For the better protection of our California steamers, which are
known to transport large amounts of specie on every voyage from
Aspinwall to New York, it has been deemed advisable to place on each
one good and serviceable pivot or swivel gun. There are undoubtedly
some guns of this description at the Brooklyn navy yard which cau
be spared from the Government service, and I write this to inquire
whether you will permit this company to use those guns for the pur-
l)O5~ named.
	I am informed by Mr. W. II. Aspinwall that during the Mexican war
the steamers on the Pacific Ocean owned by the Pacific Mail Steam-
ship Company, of which he was one of the managing owners, were fur-
nished x~Nth guns by the Government.
	It is likewise deemed advisable to place on board each of our three
steamers regularly employed in this trade 100 muskets or rifles of the
most approved description, and it is believed that these arms, in the
hands of passengers such as ordinarily travel over this route, will be
a sufficient protection against any pirate or privateer.
	The shippers of specie by our line are alarmed at the present state
of affairs, and are apprehensive that our steamers may be seized or
robbed on their voyage from Aspinwall to New York, unless some spe-
cial provision be made for their safety.
	An early reply will greatly oblige your very obedient servant,
		C. VANDERBILT.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.


Petition ~/ New York merchants and bankers to the Secretary of the Treas.
ury that means of defense be furnished the California steamers.
NEW YORK, April 17, 1861.
	SIR:	The undersigned, merchants and bankers of the city of New
York, in view of the exposure from depredations by Southern priva-
teers of the California mail steamers, carrying $40,000,000 of gold annu-
ally from San Francisco to this port, would respectfully ask your
Department to furnish each of said ships with two or more guns and
sufficient artillerymen; also such other means of defense as you in your
judgment may elect.
	The capture of even one of these steamers by the enemies of the
Govertiment, either on the Atlantic or Pacific, would stop shipments
of gold from San Francisco, or at any rate divert the flow of treasure
from New York to foreign countries; would result in serious injury to our
merchants and banks, and necessarily incommode our Government in
any future loans it may deem necessary to apply for, while our plan
would be attended with but trifling expense.
WM. SELIGMAN &#38; Co.
DUNCAN, SHERMAN &#38; Co.
J.	D. JONES.
WM. T. COLEMAN &#38; Co.
	Hon. SALMON P. CHASE,	rAnd 21 others.]
Secretary Treasury

Page 9

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	9

Letter from president of Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company to the Sec.
retary of the Navy, enclosing petition for immediate measures of pro-
tection to vessels in Southern waters.

	OFFICE OF THE ATLANTIC MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY,
New York, April 18, 1861.
	SIR: We take the liberty to send youi the enclosed petition, the pur-
pose of which is to urge upon the attention of the President the press-
ing danger with which American commerce is threatened in Southern
waters.
	It is apprehended that privateers will be fitted out immediately,
while the merchantmen are wholly unprepared, and that their first
successes will stimulate other like depredations. if they are prevented
and snppressed in the outset by instant and efficient measures the evil
[will be comparatively slight.
	We respectfully suggest that there are fast-sailing steamers at this
port which can be chartered or purchased and readily made available
for this service.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, 1). C.
J.	I). JONES,
President.

[Enclosure.]

NEW YORK, April 18, 1861.
The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:
	We entreat you to take immediate measures to protect American
commerce in the Soutberu waters, and we respectfully suggest the
purchase or charter of steamers, of which a number can be fitted fi om
here without delay.
	J.	D. JONES,
President Atlantic Mutual Insurance Co.
	M.	II. GRINNELL,
President Sun Mutual Insurance Co.
ALFRED OGDEN,
President Orient Mutual Insurance Co.
DANL DRAKE SMITH,
President Commercial Mutual Insurance Co.
	T.	B. SATTERTHWAITE,
President New York Mutual Insurance Co.
	-	JNO. S. TAPPAN,
Vice-President Union Mutual Insurance Co.
~JOHN A. PARKER,
Vice-President Great Western Insurance Co.
CHAS. NEWCOMB,
Vice-President Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co
And 11 others.1
[Endorsement. 1

	The Department will spare no means at its command to Protect the
commerce of the country. Orders have already been issued for open
ing additional recruiting rendezvons for seamen and to place every
vessel in the Navy in condition for service, etc.
G.	W

Page 10

10	OPEI~ATIONS OP TIIF~ CRUISEIl~UNION.

Letter from W. F. Weed &#38; Go. to the Secretary of the Navy offering
suggestions for the protection of commerce.

BOSTON, April 18, 1861.
	DEAR SIR: The undersigned, who are largely engaged in commerce
in this city, respectfully suggest that it is advisable for the Govern-
ment immediately to charter or purchase twenty of the best clipper ships
that can be obtained, and arm and place them in commission at once for
the protection of our commerce against privateers.
	These ships are capable of carrying a moderate battery without any
material alterations, and are strong enough to cope with any vessels
that can possibly be sent out by the Confederate States.
	They are also very fast, and in the light trim that they wonld be in
when properly ballasted, provisioned, and armed for the service would
be much faster than war steamers with favorable winds and in any
kind of weather would be superior to any sail vessels that could pos-
sibly be sent against them.
	These ships, in the absence of competent naval officers, can be
properly officered by commanders and officers of the merchant service,
manned with first-rate crews of from 50 to 100 men, armed with from
four to six long guns and a few of smaller size, with an ample supply
of small arms, and would afford great protection to our merchant ships;
they could also be made valuable as transports to carry both men and
stores.
	A few such ships, it seems to us, should be at once placed off the
passage leading to the islands of Cuba and San Domingo, with which
islands our commerce is exceedingly valuable and is now almost entirely
unprotected from privateers; and commerce, it seems to us, would be
the first for privateers to molest, and Government can not be too prompt
in taking steps for its protection.
	Such ships as we have suggested, officered and manned with New
England men and New Yorkers, would be as valuable for the protec-
tion of our commerce in the most exposed places as sailing frigates,
and we hope that they may be so considered by the Government. Six
or ten of them could be advantageously employed on the waters to
Europe between New York and Cape Sable.
Very respectftrlly, yours,
W.	F. WEED &#38; Co.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Petition of New York merchants to the Secretary of the Navy for convoy
for California steamers.
APRIL 20, 1861.
	We, the undersigned, bankers and merchants of New York, beg to
call your attention to the fact that we are advised, and fully believe,
that there are citizens of Spain and other foreigu countries who are
now, or soon will be, in possession of letters of marque, granted by the
Confederate States, who are likely to seize upon the California steam-
ers, on the Pacific and Atlantic, having on board large amounts of
treasure; and in view of this we pray that you will detail a Govern-
ment steamer on the Pacific to act as a convoy, or to bring the treasure
and mails once a month from San Francisco to Panama, and one to
bring them from Aspinwall to this port, connecting with the steame

Page 11

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	11

leaving San Francisco, say the 1st of every month, the steamers now
engaged in the trade bringing the passengers only.
	For service in the Pacific two steamers would probably be reqnired,
but whilst thus engaged they would be acting as a guard to American
interests on the entire Mexican Pacific coast.
	The importance of the safe transmission of the treasure and mails to
the Government and her citizens will, we trnst, justify aii early and
favorable response; and we will ever pray, etc.
WM. T. COLEMAN &#38; Co.
DUNCAN, SHERMAN &#38; Co.
AUGUST BELMONT &#38; Co.
WELLS, FARGO &#38; Co.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	[And 32 others.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Capture of the slaver Nightingale, April 21, 1861.

Report of Commander Taylor, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Sarat~~ga.

U.	S. S. SARATOGA, April21, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the capture of the ship Nightingale,
of Boston, under American colors, and with a cargo of 961 slaves. The
ship will sail as soon as practicable, nuder the command of Lieutenant
J. J. Guthrie, for New York, via Monrovia, Liberia. Herewith are
enclosed a copy of the orders of Lieutenant Gnthrie and his report of
inventory. For the details of the capture, I beg leave to refer to the
enclosed copy of my letter to the judge of the U. S. district court.
	I have given all the needed directions to Lieutenant Guthrie about
properly and amply providing for these unfortunate captives and
enabling them to have as mnch pure air as possible, and finally to adopt
every measure for their health and comfort. I also enclose a muster roll
of the officers and crew of this ship at the time of the capture.
	I deem it my duty to call your attention to the fact that this ship is
now very much disabled. When 1 sailed from the United States she
was 18 men short of her complement. One man has since then been
sent to the United States sick. The prize being a large ship, I deem it
necessary for safety to send 2 lieutenants, 6 marines, and 25 men in her.
Lieutenant Tyler, the marine officer of this ship, having been quite ill
for some time past, and as he may be of some assistance, I deem it
advisable to send him also. You will see that this ship is therefore 3
officers, 44 men, and 6 marines short of her complement.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ALFRED TAYLOR,
Commander.
Hon. SECRETARY OF THE NAVY,
Washington, D. C.

[Enclosures.J

Letter of Commander Taylor, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Saratoga, to the judge of
U. S. district court at New York City.
	U.S. S. SARATOGA, K	April 21, 1861.
	SIR:	For some time past the American ship Nightingale, of Boston,
Francis Bowen master, has been watched on this coast, under the su

Page 12

12	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

picion of being engaged in the slave trade. Several times we have
fallen in with her at sea, and although fully assured that she was about
to engage in this illicit trade, she has had the benefit of a doubt.
	A few days ago, observing her at anchor in this port, I caine in and
boarded her, and from several circumstances was induced to believe
that she was then preparing to receive slaves on board. Under this
impression, this ship was got under way yesterday and went some dis-
tance off, but with the intention of returning under the cover of night,
which was done, and at lOp. m. we anchored and sent two boats, under
the command of Lieutenant Guthrie, for the purpose of boarding her
by surprise, which was done, when it was found that she already had
in 961 slaves and was expecting more. Lieutenant Gnthrie accordingly
took possession of her as a prize, and I have directed him to take her
to New York and to hold himself prepared to give all the information
which the case may require, and also to deliver to you all the papers
found on board.
	She is a clipper ship of about 1,066 tons, and has Nightingale, of
Boston, on her stern, in gilt letters. Whenever she hoisted her colors
they were American, and she had them flying late yesterday evening.
Very respectfully, your obedient servatit,
ALFRED TAYLOR,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
The DISTRICT JUDGE OF U. S. DISTRICT COURT,
City of New York.


Order of Commander Taylor, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Saratoga, to Lieutenant
Guthrie, commanding prize ship Nightingale.

U.	S. S. SARATOGA, Kabenda, April21, 1861.
	SIR: You will proceed with the American ship Nightingale, of Bos-
ton, captured at this port, this morning, by this ship, to Monrovia,
Liberia, where you will immediately give information of your arrival
to the Rev. John Seyes, or his successor, the agent appointed by the
U. S. Government to receive and provide for Africans recaptured by
the cruisers of the United States. As soon as the agent is ready to
receive the African captives on shore they will be lauded with care,
and be taken charge of by the agent, who will give for them triplicate
receipts, specifying them as men and women and male and female
children. You will then enclose one of the receipts addressed to the
flag-officer commanding this squadron and leave it in care of the U. S.
agent. You will also call oii the chief of the Government of Liberia,
and inform him of the purpose of your visit, which being completed,
you will take in wood and water snificient to carry you to New York,
where you will report in person to the commandant of the naval station
and in writing to the honorable Secretary of the Navy, inclosing one
of the receipts of the U. S. agent for the African captives.
	You will be prepared to deliver up the vessel to the U. S. marshal,
and all the papers and one of the agents receipts for the captives to
the judge of the U. S. district court, and be ready to act in the case oC
the ship nuder your charge as your orders and circumstances may
require.
	Lieutenant Hays, of the Navy, and Lieutenant Tyler, of the Marines,
are ordered to report to you for duty. Six petty officers, 3 seamen, 8
ordinary seamen, 6 land smen, 2 boys, 1 corporal of marines, 5 privates
of marines will accompany you as the prize crew

Page 13

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	13

	On your arrival at New York you will strictly prohibit anyone from
leaving the ship or haviiig any communication with the shore until the
vessel is delivered to the U. S. authorities. The provisions remaining
on board and all public property in your charge, will be turned over to
the commandant of the U. S. naval station, as well as the prize crew,
with the accounts accompanying them.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ALFRED TAYLOR,
Commander.
	Lieutenant J. J. GUTURIE, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Prize fihip Nightingale.


Report of Lieutenant Gutlirie, U. S. Navy, commanding prize ship Nightingale (slaver),
giving account of cruise from Liberia to New York.

U.	S. PRIZE SHIP NIGHTINGALE,
New York, June 15, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my arrival here to-day in command
of the American ship Nightingale, thirty-two days from Monrovia,
Liberia, which port we left on the 13th of May last, at 4 p. in., after
landing 801 recaptured African captives, the official receipt for whom
is herewith enclosed. The Nightingale was seized in the act of receiv-
ing their negroes on b9ard on the night of the 20th of April, about
midnight, and I regret that an American named Francis Boweii an(l
a Spaniard named Yalentino Cortina effected their escape during my
watch on deck on the night of the 22d of April last. They probably
did so by slipping down a rope over the stern of the ship, at a time
when I had gone forward among the negroes to atteiid to a sick one,
so that whatever blame or censure may be attached to this circum-
stance devolves entirely on me; and I need not add that I feel deeply
grieved on account of it, and it has added greatly to the solicitudes of
this anxious voyage. The first person named was known to be the
commander of the Nightingale prior to the capture, and the latter was
represented as such at the time. We sailed from Kabenda for Mon-
rovia on the afternoon of the 23d of April. For the first few days we
had to contend with continual light rains and calms, and during the
latter part of the voyage had to contend with a succession of head
winds, frequent squalls, and heavy drenching rains, which probably
increased the mortality among the blacks. The African ship fever also
made its appearance on board, and several of the prize crew, as well
as Lieutenant Hays and myself, suffered from it.
	On the 3d of May John Edwards (landsman) departed this life. His
remains were committed to the deep, decomposition following death so
closely in this case that I deemed it advisable to throw overboard his
bedding, etc., to remove their contagious influence. On the 7th of May,
about 10 p. in., we anchored near Monrovia, Liberia, and on the follow-
ing day landed the recaptured Africans. The President of Liberia
very kindly tendered to me any aid in his power, either official or per-
sonal, and by means of his prompt and efficient cooperation the land-
ing was effected in so short a space of time. After filling up with water
and purifying the ship we sailed from Monrovia for New N ork, about
4 p. in., Monday, May 13. Our crew had become so debilitated and
sickly from the effects of the climate and from continued labors and
exposures that it became very difficult to carry sail and manage a ship
of this size (1,066 tons). At one time there were only 7 on duty, 3 in
one watch and 4 in the other. On the 17th of May Michael Redmon

Page 14

14	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS-~---UNION.

(marine) departed this life. His remains were committed to the deep.
On the 20th of May, Henry Nagle (ordinary seaman) departed this life.
His remains were duly committed to the deep. Both cases were malig-
nant. Shortly after this the fever began to subside, and these are all
the casualties which it is my painful duty to remand.
	The remainder of the cruise was without any important incidents.
At 12:30 last night made Barnegat light, bearing W. by N., distant
about 17 miles. At 2:30 received on board a New York pilot. At 10:30
came to off the quarantine ground and was boarded by the health officer
and quarantined, where we remained.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOHN JULIUS GUTHRIE,
Lieutenant, U. S. Navy.
HON. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Letter from president Pacific Mail Steamship Company to Secretary of
the Navy, naming points where protection to California steamers is
needed.
PAcIFIc MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY,
New York, April 24, 1861.
	DEAR SIR: By late advices from the Isthmus of Panama (via Havana
and Jamaica) I have heard that parties in the Pacific have lately pur-
chased a steamer and furnished her with arms. This would appear to
be a preparation for privateering and may have been done in anticipa-
tion of Mr. Davis war and mode of prosecuting it.
	This company has so deep an interest in the commerce between this
city and San Francisco, in its carriage of the United States mails, pas-
sengers, treasure, and merchandise freight, that 1 take the liberty of
suggesting to the Department the several points where our steamers
would be most exposed to molestation and capture: In entering and
leaving the ports of San Francisco, Acapulco, Panama, and Aspinwall,
and in passing through the West India Islands. The steamers are com-
pelled to touch at Acapulco for coals, which a privateer looking out for
them would understand and act accordingly.
	I would respectfully suggest, therefore, that the Department should
give us protection by vessels of war at the various points named, and
particularly at Acapulco, where our steamers could be easily inter-
cepted in consequence of the narrow entrance of the port, etc. I would
suggest further that steam vessels will alone answer the purpose. My
knowledge of the danger and of the different localities referred to, with
my marine education, which was acquired in both the naval and mer-
chant service, enables me to express a practical opinion on the subject
and induces me to proffer my request, which I do with all deference,
but earnestly, and in the hope that it may meet your favorable consid-
eration.
	I have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient servant,
ALLAN MOLANE,
President.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
[Endorsement.]

	Measures to be taken to guard the treasure ships on this side

Page 15

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	15
Order of the Secretary of the Navy to the commandants of navy yards,

relative to Confederate vrivateers.

[Confidential.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, April 27, 1861.

	SIR:	It will be the duty of all Government vessels to seize or capture
any privateer or vessel that it may meet on the high seas or in our
waters depredating on our commerce or making hostile demonstra-
tions toward the United States or any of its citizens. Vessels having
on board arms, munitions, articles contraband, or which are of a sus-
picious character, or that claim to belong to or to have any authority
from any government, or pretended government, not recognized by the
United States, should be at once captured. All commanders of sea-
going ships will be vigilant and energetic in carrying these orders into
execution, and you.will communicate a copy hereof to every vessel that
leaves the Portsmouth yard.
Very respectfully, etc.,
	G. WELLES,
	Captain GEO. F. PEARSON,	Secretary of the Navy.
Commandant Navy Yard, Portsmouth, N. H.

	(Similar letters were addressed to Captain William L. Hudson, com-
mandant navy yard, Boston; Captain Samuel L. Breese, commandant
navy yard, New York; Captain S. F. Du Pont, commandant navy yard,
Philadelphia; Captain J. A. Dahlgren, commandant navy yard, Wash.
ington, ID. C.)



Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Flag. Officer Montgomery, U. S. Navy,
commanding Pacific Squadron, to protect American commerce.

[Confidential.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, April 27, 1861.
	SIR:	The difficulties that have developed themselves in certain States
which have assumed an attitude of hostility to the Federal Govern.
ment, may extend to the Pacific and call for vigilant and energetic
action on your part and that of your command. Apprehensious hav-
ing been expressed that attempts may be made by privateers or lawless
persons to seize one of the California steamers, your particular atten-
tion will be directed to that subject. The ports of San Francisco, Aca-
pulco, and Panama are points of speciitl danger, and you will, in this
crisis, concentrate your force on the route from Panama. to San Fran-
cisco, unless there should be a demand for you in other quarters of
which the Department is not advised. You must exercise your judg-
ment in discharging the responsible duties that devolve upon you.
Very respectfully, etc.,
	G. W[ELLES,
	Flag-Officer J. B. MONTGOMERY,	Secretary of the Navy.]
Commanding Pacific Squadron.

	P.	S.Your dispatches to No. 87, inclusive, have been received. In
the absence of Flag-Officer Montgomery, Captain IRitchie, or the senior
officer in command at Panama, will give the necessary orders to th

Page 16

16	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

squadron, apprising them of the condition of public affairs, instructing
them to guard and protect our commerce, capture privateers, and give
vigilant attention to our interests. Jt is desirable that the information
contained in this letter be forwarded to Flag-Officer Montgomery by
the earliest conveyance.
[G.W.1

Order of the S vecretary of the Navy to commandant navy yard, Philadel

phia, to be prepared to capture privateers in waters of the Delaware.

[Confidential.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, April 27, 1861.

	SIR: I acknowledge the receipt of your letters of the 23d and 24th
instant, and approve your course and the prompt arrangements you
made in the emergency, not only responding to, but even anticipating,
the views of the Department.
	Should there be any privateer or hostile vessel in the waters of the
Delaware means should be instantly instituted for her capture, and if
there should be no public armed vessel available a steamer should be
chartered and manned without delay, to seize her as soon as reliable
information is received of such an enemy.
	I have directed Commodore Paulding to detail three or four midship.
men as requested by you. There are now ten at this station.
I am, sir, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
&#38; cretary Navy.
	Captain S. F. Du PONT,
Commandant Navy Yard, Philadelphia.



Letter from president Pacific Mail AS~teamship Company to William lii.
Aspinwall, esq., containing suggestions for protection of California
steamers.

PACIFIC MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY,
New York, April 27, 1861.
	Mv DEAR SIR: For the protection of the California Atlantic steam-
ers I would suggest that the Government station a steamer on the
usual route through the West India Islands. She, by previous under-
standing, should be met by the steamer from New York off Mariguana
Island and convoy the latter clear of Point Folly, off the east end of
Jamaica, where she should also by previous understanding meet the
steamer from Aspin wall and convoy her clear of Mariguana. Day and
night signals should be agreed upon, that there might be no mistake
in identity.
	The Government steamer could coal, etc., at Jamaica. Between
steamers she might run round Cuba, and see that no prizes were off
Havana. I would recommeild for this service a fast boat, with long
pivot guns forward and aft ; also four broadside 32-pounders of medium
length, to carry both shell and round shot, grape and canister. A
naval man can be found to command. Captain Harris would make a
first-rate master (sailing), or, if need be, captain

Page 17

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	17

	I deem this service of the highest importance to the safety of our
California steamers ; it would remove the ouiy great risk in the trade.
Very respectfully,
ALLAN MOLANE,
President.
W. H. ASPINWALL, ESQ.



Report of commandant navy yard, New York, of two vessels fitting out
at Savannah, Ga.

NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, April 29, 1861.

	SIR: Mr. C. W. Webster, of New Hampshire, late master of the
bark Silphide, more recently first officer of the steamship Florida,
arrived here on Saturday from Savannah, and reports two vessels fit-
ting out at that port, a brig and a schooner, for privateering, one of
them belonging to C. W. Lamar. He understood they would be ready
in eight or ten days.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SAMUEL L. BREESE,

Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



[Telegram.]

NEW YORK, April 30, 1861.
(Received Washington, 1:30 p. in.)
	SECRETARY OF NAVY: By the mail to-morrow will you please order
Commodore Montgomery to send a war steamer to Acapulco for the
protection of our steamers containing passengers, mails, treasures, etc.
Should one of them be captured the enemy would have to take her to
some Mexican port. Our steamers are compelled to stop at Acapulco
for coal.
ALLAN MCLANE,
President.


Order of the Secretary	of the Navy to commandant navy yard, New York,
to capture all insurgent vessels.

[Confidential.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT,
Washington, D. C., May 2, 1861.
	SIR: The information communicated in yours of the 29th April, that
two privateers are fitting out at Savannah, is corroborated by informa-
tion drawn from other sources. I send herewith extracts from a letter
in this Department, and from these, as well as from the facts of your
letter, it is evident that no time should be lost in dispatching two of the
steamers off Savannah River. As the Department is unadvised in
regard to the steamers you have engaged, it is compelled to instruct
you to order two on this service.
123A.

Page 18

18	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	The commanders have already been detailed, and if you have not lieu-
tenants you must employ masters mates. Should the Constitution be
in New York with the midshipmen, you are authorized to detail one for
each of the steamers.
	The commanders will make it a point to capture all privateers, all
armed vessels, and, indeed, any vessel sailing under authority, or pre-
tended authority, from the States in insurrection; to seize all vessels
having on board arms, armed men, munitions, or articles contraband of
war. So far as in their power, they will establish a blockade in conform.
ity with the proclamation of the President, copies of which are herewith
transmitted. Neutral vessels in port they will permit to depart withiu
fifteen days.
	After Flag-Officer Striugham shall have arrived out he will give
orders in detail; until then a copy of this letter will be their instruc-
tions.
Report the names of the vessels, commanders, and other particulars.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,

&#38; cretary Navy.
Commodore SAML. L. BREESE,

Commanding Navy Yard, New York.

[Enclosure.]


EXTRACTS REFERRED TO IN DISPATCH TO COMMODORE BREESE,

MAY 2, 1861.

	Steamer Evergiade and a steam tug purchased in New York are being
fitted up by the State of Georgia at Savannah. They burn wood now,
and are called coast-guard boats. A prohibition of coal into their ports
would keep these steamers near their wood piles.
	A small 80-ton schooner, single topsail, is also being fitted at Savan-
nah, said to be for a privateer. She is rather old, Baltimore model, tall
raking masts, fine lines, headboards, and ornamental figurehead, scroll,
or something similar; been lying in Savannah River some time; painted
black ten days since; apparently ready for sea except bending sails;
could not carry much of an armament or many men, but could be towed
to sea by one of the steamers referred to through some of the inlets
making from the Savannah River, and go to sea 20 miles above or below
Savannah. Timber and planking could be obtained just below Savan-
nah (accessible to ships), scows made, filled with stones, towed in, and
sunk across the channels. This, with a blockade, would compel a man
to go ahorseback part of the way to get from Georgia to Florida, and
cut off Savannah from all trade or intercourse by water north or south
except in small boats.
	The restriction on the export of corn from Baltimore stops the entire
present supply of corn to Savannah, as the Baltimore line of propellers
have been carrying large quantities of corn lately for Georgia consump-
tion. Corn has been going to sea from North Carolina to Georgia.
	To blockade Norfolk effectually the canal from that port connecting
with ports and places in North Carolina should be stopl)ed working.
A small, fast-sailing schooner, 30 tons, was at Fernandina, Fla., tell
days since, said to be intended as a privateer. The Wanderer is in
Havana on sale. Coal for New Orleans boats go down the Mississippi
from Pittsburg

Page 19

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	19

Letter from the governor of New Jersey to the President of the United
States regarding defenseless condition of that State.

STATE OF NEW JERSEY, EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT,
Trenton, May 2, 1861.
	DEAR Sin: The citizens of New Jersey residing in the southwest-
ern part of the State and on the Delaware Bay feel some anxiety on
account of their defenseless condition and exposure to annoyance from
privateers. I have consulted Commodore Stockton on the subject, and
have prevailed upon him and Mr. Edwin A. Stevens to visit Washing-
ton on behalf of the State, to confer with you as to the most appropriate
means of allaying the apprehensions of our people.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
OHS. S. OLDEN,
Governor.]
Hon. A. LINCOLN,
President of the United States.



Order of Secretary of the Navy to Commander Goldsborough, U. ~. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. U~ion,to cruise for protection of commerce.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, May 2, 1861.

	Sin:	You will proceed with the Union and cruise off the capes of [the]
Delaware for the protection of commerce in that quarter. You will cap-
ture any privateers or illegal vessels, detain and examine those that
are suspicious or which have armed men, munitions, or articles con-
traband of war destined to the insurrectionary States an
convenient make report to the Department.	d as often as
Very respectfully,
GIDEON WELLES,

Commander J. ~. GOLDSEOROUGH,	Secretary of the Navy.]
Commanding U. S. S. Union.



Order of Secretary of the Navy to commandant navy yard, New York,
to suppress privateering.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, May 13, 1861.

	Sir:	As soon as the equipment of the Mount Vernon is completed
and she is officered and ready for sea she will proceed with all expe-
dition to the gulf for the purpose of aiding in suppressing privateering
and carrying into effect the blockade of the ports in that quarter. Her
commanding officer will report to the senior officer on his arrival for
instructions, and in the meantime will capture any privateers or ves-
sels with hostile troops or arms or munitions destined for the insur-
rectionary States.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commodore S. L. BREESE,	[Secretary of the Navy.]
Commandant Navy Yard, New York

Page 20

20	OPERArIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Flag- Officer Belt, U. &#38; Navy, commanding U. S. naval
forces, ]Jfediterranean Sea, of the sailing, in obedience to Depart-
ments orders, of the U. S. S. Susquehanna and Iroquois for New
York.
U.	S. FLAGSHIP RICHMOND,
Spezia, May 13, 1861.
	Siu: I have the honor to inform you that on the 4th instant I
received your letters of the 8th and 11th April, the first directing me
to send to New York the Susquehanna and Iroquois and the latter to
return to the United States with this ship also.
	The following day the Susquehanna arrived at Naples, in accordance
with an order I had sent to Captain Rollins to join me on the 5th May.
In less than two and a half hours that ship was again under way, with
instructions to proceed to New York, touching at Tunis, and, if neces-
sary, at Cagliari and [Port] Mahon, to deliver a letter to Captain Palmer
to join me in the Iroquois immediately at Spezia.
	The day I received your order for the return of the ships at a ven-
ture I telegraphed to Commander Palmer, supposing it possible it
might reach him before he sailed. This telegram fortunately arrived
at Malta as he was about to leave, and he immediately turned his
conrse toward Spezia, where he arrived on the 9th instant. Captain
Rollins will, therefore, in accordance with his instructions, stop only
at Tunis, which will be a detention of but a few hours, and may be
expected in New York by the 1st of June.
	It blew a gale directly into the Bay of Naples when the Susquehanna
left, but having full steam power she easily made way against it. The
following day, the gale continuing, we were compelled to remain at
our anchors, but left the day after, the 7th instant, and arrived here
to-day. On our way up from Naples I touched at Leghorn to settle some
unpaid bills of the Susquehanna and adjust other matters connected
with our return to the United States.
	The Iroquois will sail at daylight to-morrow for Leghorn to replen-
islit her stock of coal. As I have made arrangements to get her a speedy
supply she will not be detained there over twenty-four hours, and will
then continue her course to New York.
	In this ship we are now employed in getting in our stores of water,
provisions, etc., which I hope we can accomplish in three or four days,
when we shall proceed to Genoa for coal and a portion of the machin-
ery of the engine sent recently from New York.
	I respectfully enclose a copy of my last order to Captain G. N. Rol-
lins of the Susquehanna.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, yours,
CHAS. II. BELL,
	Flag-Officer, Commanding U. S. Naval Forces, Mediterranean.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

[Enclosure.]


U.	S. FLAGSHIP RICHMOND,
Naples, May 5, 1861.
	SIR: You will proceed immediately to Tunis and give the enclosed
letter to Commander Palmer of the Iroquois. If the Iroquois has not
been to Tunis, you will leave the letter for Commander Palmer at that
place. If Commander Palmer has left Tunis, you follow him to Cagliari

Page 21

OPERATIONS 01? THE CRUISERSUNION.	21

island of Sardinia. If he has left there you will go to [Port] Mahon,
island, of Mm orca, and if the Iroquois is not there and has not been
there, you will leave the letter in the hands of the U. S. consul. When
the letter is disposed of you will proceed as soon as possible to New
York, stopping at Gibraltar or Cadiz to fill up your coal, and on your
arrival at New York report to the honorable Secretary of the Navy.
I am, respectfully, yours,
CHAS. II. BELL,
Flag- Officer.
Captain GEORGE N. HOLLINS,
Commanding U. S. S. AS~usquehanna, Naples.




Order of Flag-Officer Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. naval forces,
Mediterranean Sea, to Commander Palmer, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. S. iroquois, to proceed without delay to New York.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP RICHMOND,
Spezia, May 13, 1861.
	SIR:	You will get under way as early as possible to-morrow morning
and proceed to Leghorn, where I have arranged with the American
vice-consul to supply you without delay with coal. As soon after as
you are ready in all respects you will proceed to New York, touching on
your way either at Gibraltar or Cadiz to replenish your coal. On your
way across the Atlantic, if necessary, you can stop either at Madeira
or Fayal, according to the route you take, for a further supply. You
will exercise your best judgment to make a quick passage, as it is all
important that your ship should reach the United States as soon as
possible. On your arrival you will report to the Secretary of the
Navy and send him a copy of this letter.
	Wishing you a safe and quick passage and a happy meeting with
your family and friends,
I am, very respectfully, yours,
CHAS. II. BELL,
Fla.q-Officer.

	P. S.You will be pleased to write me from Gibraltar or Cadiz,
placing your letter in the care of the U. S. consul at Gibraltar, to be
handed to me on my arrival at that place.
C.II.B.
	Commander J. S. PALMER,
Commanding U. S. S. Iroquois, La Spezia.




Letter from B. B. Forbes, esq., to Secretary of the Navy, forwarding
memorial regarding protection of vessels in Vineyard Sound.

BOSTON, May 14, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to forward herewith a memorial relating to
the protection of the trade centering in the Vineyard Sound and vicin-
ity, say from Montank Point to the coast of Cape Cod

Page 22

22	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I have been offered a very effective propeller tugboat, which would
be a suitable vessel to arm with two 0 or 12 pound rifle gnus. She is
new and well built, and can be bought at a reasonable price by private
contract if applied for soon. She is about 127 tons, 80 feet long, 18
beam, and 8 ~- hold, with a condensing engine 26-iuch cyliiider.
I am, very faithfully, your servant,
11.	B. FORBES.
Hon. GiDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
(Enclosure.]

BOSTON, May 13, 1861.
	Whereas the number of vessels passing through the Vineyard Sound
is very large, amounting to more than 50,000 annually, and belong-
ing to all the ports of New England, the undersigned, insurers,
merchants, and others interested therein, respectfully request that an
armed steamer be stationed as a coast guard in said Vineyard Sound.
ALLIANCE INSURANCE COMPANY,
Per H. S. ANDROS, President.
[And other insurance companies and merchants.]
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Lieutenant Brasher, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. brig Bainbridge, to protect Galifornia steamers.

NAvY DEPARTMENT, May 15, 1861.
	SIR: Having been appointed to the command of the U. S. brig Bain-
bridge, you will proceed with that vessel the moment she is ready for
sea with all practicable dispatch to Aspinwall, New Grenada. You
will remain there with her until otherwise ordered by the Department
or the flag-officer of the home or West India Squadron, Captain
Pendergrast.
	Your principal object at Aspinwall will be the protection of the Cali-
fornia steamships with their passengers and treasure against piratical
vessels, or vessels sailing under pretended letters of marqne issued by
the insurrectionary States. Should you fall in with any such vessels,
you will promptly seize them and send them either to New York or
Boston.

	For the present you will send your communications to the Depart-
ment direct, reserving copies to be handed or forwarded to the flag-
officer of the squadron when an opportunity may offer.
	Before sailing from Boston forward to the Department a muster roll
of the Bainbridge and a separate list of her officers. Blanks for the
purpose have been transmitted to the commandant of the navy yard,
Boston.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
	[GIDEON WELLES,
	Lieutenant T. M. BRASHER,	Secretary of the Navy.]
Commanding U. S. Brig Bainbridge, Boston

Page 23

OPERATIONS OF tHE CRUISERSUNION.	23

Report of Flag- Officer Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. naval forces,
Mediterranean Sea, of proposed capture of American merchant ships by
Confederate privateers in those waters.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP RICHMOND,
Genoa, May 18, 1861.
	SIR: A gentleman came on board to see me to-day by the name of
Augustus Collingbridge, late a captain in the British East India service,
who states that a few days since, while at Frankfort on the Main, he
was waited on by a Spaniard, agent for the firm of Garcia &#38; Co.,
bankers of Barcelona, and an offer made to him to furnish commissions
for privateers on the part of the Southern Confederate States. He was
informed by this agent that, as the United States squadron had been
recalled and would soon leave the Mediterranean, there would be a fine
opportunity of capturing all the American merchant ships in that sea.
	Captain Collingbridge thought, from information that he had received,
that the American consul at Cadiz would not object to promote this
aftair, and that the American consul at Genoa was in the same cate-
gory. As both these gentlemen come from a section of the country
noted for its filibustering propensities, and from what I have seen and
heard of them myself, I have no doubt there is some foundation for
this suspicion.
	In ten days this ship will be on the Atlantic, and then the Mediter-
ranean will be entirely exposed to these marauders. There are now six
American vessels in this port. I left several at Leghorn, and there are
probably a number at Marseilles and Malaga.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, yours,
CHAS. H. BELL,
	Flag-Officer, Commanding U. S. Naval Forces, Mediterranean.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy.


Letter from Messrs. D. I?. King &#38; Co., Philadelphia, to Secretary of the
Navy, requesting naval convoy or armament for California steamers.

PHILADELPHIA, May 20, 1861.
	DEAR SIR: We have for several years past been in the habit of
making large and regular shipments to California in Vanderbilts
steamers, but at present fear the risk of capture is too great to con-
tinue to do so unless we have your assurance of either a naval convoy
or armament.
	Our object in writing is to suggest to you whether it would not be
practicable to put these ships in commission and put a force of marines
and a pivot gun of long range on board of each. An assurance from
the Government that measures had been adopted for the full protection
of the California steamers will allay much anxiety on the part of those
who are shipping goods or who expect remittances.
	If you can find time from your present arduous engagements to reply
to our communication, you will confer a great favor not only on our-
selves, but also on a large number of other persons who are deeply
interested.
We are, very respectfully, your obedient servants,
B.	B. KING &#38; Co.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES

Page 24

24
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
Letter from Secretary of the Navy to the governor of New Jersey regard-
ing protection for that State.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, May 21, 1861.

	SIR: I have received your letter of the 15th instant on the subject
of protecting the inlets on the New Jersey coast, and would respect-
fully state in reply that the coast guard of the loyal States is assumed
by the Treasury Department as a part of the revenue system, to which
I have referred your letter.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
	His Excellency CHARLES S. OLDEN,
Governor of New Jersey.


Report of Captain Nicholas, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Constella-
tion, of the capture by that vessel of the American brig Triton (slaver).

U.	S. S. CONSTELLATION,
Congo River, West Coast of Africa, May 22, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to report to you that I yesterday captured at
Punta da Lenha the American brig Triton. She had no slaves on
board, but every preparation for their reception had been made.
	I dispatched her to-day for Norfolk, under charge of Midshipman
George A. Borchert, with the necessary written instructions for his
guidance on his arrival. The men who accompany Mr. Borchert have
been on this coast nearly two years, and o a their arrival at Norfolk
will have been at sea actively employed over two years. I therefore
respectfully request that they may be paid off aud discharged, and that
Mr. Borchert may be allowed the usual leave of absence.
	I avail myself of this occasiou to report to you the prompt and effi-
cient cooperation which I received from Captain Bedingfield, of H.
M. S.. Prometheus. Having no means myself of communicating with
Punta da Lenha I intimated the fact to Captain Bedingfield, who
instantly placed his steamer at my disposal, with the oiler to tow a boat
with as many officers and men as I chose to send. I sent out the fourth
cntter, under command of Lieutenant P. C. Johnson, and they com-
mence(l steaming up the river at 3 oclock, and by 10 oclock had taken
possession of the Triton.
	The only other American vessel there was the Falmouth. She doubt-
less is going to take in slave cargo, but her preparations were not suf-
ficiently advanced to make it advisable to seize her. Had I been one
month earlier I could have Inade a great capture, as there were at that
time nine slavers at Punta da Lenha, all of which have escaped except
the ship Nightingale, which wa~ captured by the Saratoga.
	It is perhaps proper for me to state that Flag-Officer Inman is tem-
porarily absent from this ship, he having removed his flag to the Ports-
mouth. This will account for my making this report.
	The crew of this ship are in tolerably good health, but the effect of the
climate is beginning to tell upon them.
I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant,
J.	S. NICHOLAS,
Captain, Commanding U. S. S. Constellation.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 25

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	25

Report of Lieutenant Brasher, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. brig Bain-
bridge, acknowledging orders.

U. S. Bi~io- BAINBRIDGE,
Off Boston Light, May 22, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the sailing of this vessel under your
orders of May 15, and shall use my utmost exertion to execute well
your instructions. The muster roll of officers and men is forwarded
through the commodore of the yard.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
T. M. BRASHER,
Lieutenant, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Captain Ritchie, U. S. Navy, senior officer present in Bay of
Panama, relative to mail steamers.

U.	S. S. SARANAC,
Bay of Panama, May 22, 1861.
	SIR:	Communications from the Department of dates April 27 and
May 1 have been received, together with the Presidents proclamation
in regard to pretended letters of marque.
	Having been notified by the Pacific Mail Steamship Company of the
supposed presence of privateers in the Pacific, I had partly anticipated
the orders of the Department by directing Commander Bissell, now at
Acapulco, to cruise with the Cyane between ~that port and Mauzanilla;
and have also dispatched an order to Commander Porter, at San Fran-
cisco to expedite the repairs on the St. Marys, and when in readiness
for sea to repair at once to Mauzanilla and cooperate with Captain
Bissell in affording protection to the mail steamers along the most
exposed line of coast.
	By the English mail steamer sailing hence on the 24th instant I will
forward instructions to Captain hunt to proceed immediately with the
Narragansett to the relief of the 6yane, which latter vessel, after receiv-
ing her stores at this port, will be dispatched to Callao and discharge
the duties of the Narragansett at that place.
	Captain [J. K.] Mitchells last communication states that he expected
to sail from San Francisco with the Wyoming for this port about the
1st instant. Should 1 hear, however, of the further detention of that
vessel, I will direct Captain Mitchell to remain with the Wyoming at San
Francisco and afford protection to our interests at that point. In my
orders to Commander Bissell I have directed special vigilance to be
exercised on the arrival and departure of the mail steamers at the port
of Acapulco, and will instruct Captain Hunt to the same effect.
	Copies of instructions received from the Department will be forwarded
to the flag-officer by the earliest conveyance.
1 am, vcry respectfully, your obedient servant,
IiOBT. RITCHIE,
Captain, Senior Officer present.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 26

26	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from Secretary of the Navy to Messrs. D. B. King &#38; Co. regarding
measures for protection of California steamers.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, May 23, 1861.
	GENTLEMEN:	Your communication of the 20th instant has been
received. The Department has given instructions to its vessels in the
West Indies and Pacific for the protection of the California steamers,
and it is understood that the steamship company has taken measures
to defend their vessels.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,

Messrs. D. IR. KING &#38; Co., Philadelphia. ~Secretary of the Navy.]



Letter from Henry Wenzell, esq., of Boston, to Secretary qf the Naey,for
warding information of the fitting out of privateers at New Orleans.

BOSTON, May 23, 1861.
	DEAR SIR: To-day an item of intelligence has come to my knowl-
edge that may or may not be important, and that as a loyal citizen I
feel it my duty to communicate, though I have not the honor of being
known by you.
	To-day an acquaintance received a letter from his brother, resident
in New Orleans, dated the 16th instant, in which he reports the fitting
out at that place by a stock company of the steam tugboat Enoch
Train as a privateer; also reports that nine other vessels were being
fitted for that purpose at Algiers, on the opposite side of the river.
This letter he has loaned to a Mr. Kimball, said to be part owner of the
Enoch Train, who starts this evening for Washington in order to see
you in relation to the affair. This Mr. Kimball I have never before
heard of, and have no evidence of his loyalty or of his want of it. Mr.
Thaxter, the gentleman who received the letter, has great confidence in
his brothers statements.
	Wishing for our arms success equal to that in the olden time, when
the war cry was, The sword of the Lord and of Gideon,
I am, dear sir, yours, truly,
HENRY WENZELL.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy, U. S. A., Washington.



Report of Flag- Officer Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. naval forces,
Mediterranean Sea, of his arrival at Gibraltar in the flagship Rich-
mond.
U.	S. FLAGSHIP RICHMOND,
Gibraltar, May 29, 1861.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you that we arrived here yesterday
in six and a half days from Genoa. In consequence of thick, foggy
weather, I anchored at Malaga for a few hours. I availed myself of
this opportunity to communicate to the consul the information received
in regard to the probability of privateers being fitted out in Spain t

Page 27

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	27

cruise against our commerce in the Mediterranean. I learn here that
the Susquehanna left (Jadiz for New York on the 19th instant, and the
Iroquois on the 25th; this ship will follow to-morrow.
	Previous to leaving Genoa we made two attempts, both without suc-
cess, to raise our propeller. In former communications I informed
the Department of this difficulty, and that I intended to dock the ship
at Toulon, to have it remedied; but the order to return home, at this
important time, did not admit of this delay. We shall have to there-
fore drag it most of the way across the ocean, as we can not carry coal
sufficient to steam the whole distance. This will compel me to stop at
Madeira to fill up, but I hope that this detention will not be for more
than one day. Under all these circumstances I think the Richmond
may be expected to arrive in New York about the 5th of July.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, yours,
CHAs. II. BELL,
	Flag-Officer, Commanding U. S. Naval Forces, Mediterranean.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Letter from Secretary of the Navy to Henry Weuzell, esq., of Boston, Mass.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, May 29, 1861.
	SIR: The Department has received your communication of the 23d
instant in relation to the fitting out of privateers at New Orleans, and
thanks you for the information atlorded.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
HENRY WENZELL, ESQ.,
Boston, Mass.



Report of Flag- Officer Sands, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. Brazil
Squadron, of departure of U. S. S. Seminole for Philadelphia, in obedi-
ence to orders.
U.	S. FLAG STEAMER PULASKI,
Montevideo, May 31, 1861.
	SIR:	Since my last, No. 18, I have the honor to acknowledge the
receipt of your order of April 8, directing me to order the steamer
Seminole, Commander Thomson, of this squadron, to the port of Phila-
delphia.
	On the 14th of this month I ordered the steamer to proceed to Rio
de Janeiro for stores and provisions for the use of the squadron at this
point, with instructions to Commander Thomson, in the event of meet-
ing dispatches there for me, to open, and if finding, as I supposed
there might be, from the nature of circumstances at home, anything
relating to the steamer under his command, to act in accordance with-
out further reference to me. I am happy to state, for the information
of the honorable Department, this day, per French mail, I received a
letter from Commander Thomson, informing me of having opened your
communication, and that he was then (23d May) preparing to sail fo

Page 28

28	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUiSERSUNION.

the United States, and in five days would be ready to proceed, in obe-
dience to your order of the 8th April, which 1 had happily anticipated,
and thereby gained time, which I believed might be of importance to
the Department.
	Commander Thomson speaks in favorable terms of the Seminole
since some alterations have been made on her while here, and I have
every reason to believe that, with some further alterations when she
shall arrive in the United States, she may prove a useful and valuable
vessel to the Government.
I am, sir, most respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSHUA R. SANDS,
Flag-Officer, Commanding U. S. Brazil Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, ft C.




Capture of the Confederate privateer Savannah by the ii]. S. brig Perry,
June 3, 1861.

Extract from report of Rear-Admiral Stringham, U. S. Navy, commanding North Atlantic
Blockading Squadron, transmitting report of Lieutenant Parrott, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. brig Perry.

U.	S. S. MINNESOTA,
Off Charleston Harbor, June 6, 1861.
SIR:	*	*	* *	*	*	*

	June 5, about 10 oclock a. in., our masthead lookout made a sail,
which proved to be the U. S. brig Perry, Lieutenant Commanding Par-
rott, with a prize in company, it being a piratical schooner of about 50
tons, called the Savannah, hailing from Charleston, with a commission
from Jefferson Davis, dated Montgomery, May 18, 1861, commanded
by T. Harrison Baker, and a crew of 19 men. She had placed some of
her crew on board a prize, the brig Joseph, of iRockland, Me., from
Cardenas, with sugar, which she had captured on the 3d instant, and
ordered to Beaufort, S. C. The captain of the Joseph, retained on
board the schooner, now goes to New York in company with the prize
master. 1 herewith enclose a copy of Lieutenant Commanding Par-
rotts report.
	I shall order the schooner to New York iii charge of Prize Master R.
S. McCook, midshipman.
	I beg leave most respectfully to remind the I)epartment that I am
very much in want of vessels.
	The prisoners of the schooner Savannah, captain, lieutenant, sailing-
master, and purser, and 10 men6 having been sent away in their
prize, the Josephare on board the Minnesota, and will be sent on the
first opportunity to a Northern port.
The	Perry has proceeded to her station off Fernandina.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
S.	II. STRINGHAM,

Flag-Officer, Atlantic Blockading Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Kavy

Page 29

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	29

[Enclosure.]

Report of Lieutenant Parrott, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. brig Perry.

U.	S. BRIG- PERRY,
At Sea, June 5, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that on the 3d instant the privateer
schooner Savannah, of Charleston, S. C., Captain T. II. Baker, commis-
sioned by Jefferson Davis, President of the Confederate States of
America, was captured by this vessel about 60 miles east of Charles-
ton, S. C.
	The following are the particulars of the capture: She was discov-
ered apparently following a brig, and, considering her movements sus-
picious, we gave her chase, and, getting nearer, discovered that she
carried a pivot gun. We showed our colors, which sometime after
she answered by hoisting a flag for a moment and hauling it down
again too soon for us to make it out. We afterwards fired a gun ahead
of her, but she showed no colors. At 7:50 p. in., it being quite dark,
and the brig, which had been seen near the schooner, out of sight, we
were within range, and opened fire on the schooner, which she returned,
several of her shots passing over us. At 8:10 she ceased firing and
we lost sight of her for a moment; it proved that she had lowered her
sails to show her submission. Wore round and passed near her with-
out firing, asking if she surrendered, but could not understand her
answer. Wore again, and on passing her were answered that she had
surrendered. A prize crew was sent on board, with orders to follow us,
and her crew were transferred to this vessel.
	She had left Charleston on the 2d instant on her first cruise. We
found on board of her the master of the brig Joseph, of Rockland, Me.,
which was the vessel seen near her, and which she had captured on the
morning of the 3d instant.
	As the smoke from the guns added to the difficulty of keeping the
vessel in view, we fired slowly and expended but a few shots upon her.
Two of our shots passed through her sails and one between them and
the hull.
	The officers and crew seconded with great zeal my efforts to prevent
the escape of the privateer. She awaits your orders.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
E.	G. PARROTT,
Lieutenant, Commanding.
Flag-Officer SILAs II. STRING-HAM,
U. S. S. Minnesota.


Abstract of log of U. S. brig Perry, Lieutenant E. G. Parrott, U. S. Navy, commanding.

	June 3, 1861.(Latitude, 32047; longitude, 78052.) Boarded Bremen
bark Copernicus, bound for Baltimore. She certified that she had been
boarded by the Minnesota and warned not to enter any port south of
the Chesapeake. At 2 saw light-house bearing N. W. by W. At 4 dis-
covered a brig and a schooner; schooner a mile astern of brig. At 4:40
p. in., movements of the schooner being suspicious, gave chase to her.
At 5 saw that schooner had a gun. At 6:10 schooner hoisted colors and
kept them up only for a moment, but we could not make them out. At
7:15 fired a shot ahead of her, but she showed no colors. At 7:50, it
being quite dark and the brig out of sight, opened fire on the schooner

Page 30

30	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

which she returned. Several of her shot passed over us. At 8:10
schooner ceased firing and we lost sight of her for a moment. It proved
that she had lowered her sails to show her submission. Wore around
and passed near her without firing, asking if she had surrendered. Sent
a boat on board of her with Lieutenant J. N. Miller; returned, bringing
her captain, several officers, and the captain of the brig Joseph, of Rock-
land, Me., which brig had been captured by the schooner and was the
vessel seen near her. At 12 m. she followed us, under the charge of
Masters Mate Palmer and 6 men. Found the prize to be the privateer
Savannah, of Charleston, S. C., Captain T. II. Baker, sailing under a
letter of marque, signed by Jefferson Davis. She left Charleston the
2d of June on her first cruise. During the action expended 14 shell
and 2 round shot.


Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Lieutenant Parrott, U. S. Navy commanding U. S. brig
Perry, commending the officers and crew of that vessel for the capture of the Confederate
privateer Savannah.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 15, 1861.

	Sru: I received through Flag-Officer Stringhain a copy of your
report of the capture of the privateer Savannah by the U. S. brig Perry
nuder your command. The ability and energy displayed in overhaul-
ing, under adverse circumstances, and capturing the Savannah, reflect.
credit on yourself and the officers and men under your command.
	You will make known to the officers and crew of the Perry the Depart-
ments admiration and appreciation of their services.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.]
	Lieutenant E. 0-. PARROTT,
Commanding U. S. Brig Perry, Atlantic Blockading Squadron.



Report of Flag- Officer Sands, U. S. Navy, commanding United States
frrces, coast of Brazil, of preparation by U. S. flagship Congress for
departure for Boston, Mass.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP CONGRESS,
Off Montevideo, June 16, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to state for the information of the Depart-
ment that on the 15th of this month (yesterday) I received your order
of April 9, ordering this ship home. Your order of the 8th April,
received by the previous mail, via France, had been auticipated so far
as to induce me to direct Commander Thomson to open any dis-
patches he might find at Rio de Janeiro and act on them so far as they
might relate to the Seminole, and forward his communication to me.
I am induced to hope that the Seminole is now well on her way to Phila-
delphia, as ordered by the honorable Department.
	I am at a loss to account for the nonreceipt of yours of the 9th April,
with that of the 8th, which I regret, as it makes a difference of some
fifteen days; but the Congress having been always kept in immediate
readiness for any orders, she will sail for Boston as soon as her bills
can be settled and small amount of bread obtained to supply the loss
of some unexpectedly condemned. I hope to sail by the 19th, an

Page 31

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	31

nothing shall be wanting to place this ship at the disposal of the hon-
orable Department with as little delay as possible.
I am, sir, most respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSHUA 11. SANDS,
Flag- Officer, Commanding United States Forces, Coast of Brazil.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Letter from committee of New York Board of Underwriters to the Secre-
tary of the Navy, enclosing copy of orders to the captain of their armed
schooner.

COMMITTEE FOR MANAGING AFFAIRS OF THE
KEY WEST AND NASSAU AGENCIES,
New York, June 17, 1861.
	SIR: We are in receipt of your communication of the 15th instant,
granting permission to Acting Master Moses Hoyt to assume command
of our schooner Henry W. Johnson, under the instructions which were
submitted to you for approval by Captain Fraser, and a copy of which
we have now the honor to transmit, agreeable to your instructions, to
 be placed on the files of the Department.
	We have the honor to be, very respectfully, sir, your obedient serv-
ants,
F.	S. LATHROP,
DANIEL DRAKE SMITH,
JOHN D. JONES,
RICHARD LATHERS,
ALFRED EDWARDS,
Committee for Nassau and Key West Agencies,
New York Board of Underwriters.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

[Enclosure.]

Copy of special instructions.

NEW YORK, June 6, 1861.
	SIR: Hostilities have been commenced by some of the Southern States
against the Federal Government of the United States, and confederat-
ing together they have authorized the issne of letters of marque and
reprisal against the property of the citizens of the United States on
the high seas.
	As set forth in your general instructions of this date, the schooner
Henry W. Johnson is employed for the same purposes for which the
ii uderwriters have maintained a vessel under your command for several
years past, viz, to cruise among the Bahama Islands for the purpose
of preventing shipwrecks as far as possible, and rendering such advice
and assistance as may be in your power to masters of vessels stranded
or otherwise in distress, with a view to the saving and preservation of
the property under their charge; but, for protection against any
attack which may be made upon her, they have deemed it proper to
place an armament on board, and to provide her with an additional num-
ber of men

Page 32

32	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.

	You will therefore take all necessary precautions for the safety of
said armament, and establish such regulations, discipline, and practice
among the crew as will enable you at all times to make an efficient
defense in case of need.
	If you are attacked, you will defend your vessel to the last extremity.
If you fall in with any merchant vessel attacked or captured by a
privateer, you will defend or rescue her if in your power to do so, and
if the attacking vessel should become your prize, you will take her into
Key West, if that place remains in possession of the authorities of the
United States; or, in case of necessity, after delivering up her officers
and crew to the nearest United States authorities, you may send the
captured vessel to New York, to be disposed of as the law may sanction.
	You will at all times, when not inconsistent with other duties, act as
convoy to any merchant vessels upon which, or in whose cargoes, you
have reason to suppose that your employers are interested as insurers.
	In the event of any occurrences of a character contemplated by these
instructions you will make a detailed report thereof to the chairman of
the committee on the Nassau and Key West agencies, and also inclose
under cover to him a copy addressed to the Secretary of the Navy of
the United States, which will be forwarded if deemed important.
Very respectfully, yours,
F.	S. LATEROP,
DANIEL DRAKE SMITH,
JOHN D. JONES,
RICHARD LATHERS,
ALFRED EDWARDS,
Committee for Nassau and Key West Agencies.
	Captain MosEs HOYT.



Instructions from Flag- Officer Sands, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S.
Brazil Squadron, to Lieutenant Commanding ]Iliacomb, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Pulaski, to assume the duties of senior officer
in command.
U.	S. FRIGATE CONGRESS,
Montevideo, June 20, 1861.
	Sin: The honorable Navy Department of the United States having
ordered this ship home, you will remain on this coast and river, senior
naval officer in command. Your attention will be at all times directed
to the honor of our Ilag and the interests of onr citizens and their
property under all and every circumstance you may be called upon to
act.
	Under the peculiar state of our public affairs at home it is impossible
for me to anticipate all matters you may be called on to give your atten-
tion to. As they come up I must leave them to your discretion and
good judgment in connection with any of our consuls at hand, and
with whom I would recommend you to advise. For the efficiency, dis-
cipline, and good order of the steamer Pulaski, nuder your command,
the honorable Department, having long since confided her to you, has
every reason to believe that you are fully equal to it.
	The Pulaski as a vessel of war being of not much force or efficiency,
your own force of character will have to make up for what may be
wanting in her to sustain the honor of the flag of the Union, and it
is fully confided to you.
On my arrival in the United States I shall represent the circu

Page 33

OPERATIONS 01? THE CRUISERSUNION.
33
stances of the case of the Pulaski, and have no doubt you will be
amply eared for. All dispatches arriving for the flag or senior officer
you will open and act in strict compliance with the same, using your best
judgment to carry them out strictly and in a way calculated to meet
all the views of the Government.
	In taking leave of you, sir, I should be wanting in duty to the Gov-
ernment, yourself, and my own feelings were I not to say how much I
appreciate your valuable services and the prompt, zealous, and hand-
some manner in which you have carried out all my orders aud sus-
tained your position as an officer of the Navy.
Wishing you every honor and success, I am, sir, very respectfully.
your obedient servant,
JOSHUA It. SANDS,
	Flag-Officer, Commanding U. S. Brazil Squadron.
Lieutenant Commanding WM. II. MACOMB,
Commanding U. S. Pulaski.



Letter from Daniel Hood, esq., to Hon. William P. Fessenden, regardin9
capture of ship A. B. Thompson by C. S. privateer Lady Davis.

PORTLAND, June 22, 1861.
DEAR SIR: On the 21st ultimo, my ship A. B. Thompson, of Bruns-
wick, Me., of 980 tons, was taken, aftem leaving Savannah on the day
previous, off Port Hoyal Bay [Sound], by steamer Lady Davis, Captain
Pelot, and taken to Beaufort, S. C., as we learn from our correspondent
at Savannah, Ga. I have not received any information from the cap-
tain since she left Savannah.
	She is rather a fast sailer. She will make to the rebels a good sloop
of war. She can be converted iuto a steamer and would make a formid-
ableprivateer. Please to represent this to our Government at Washing-
ton. She is worth about $30,OOOto me, or us. They will confer a great
favor on us if they will send a steamer, take her out, and tow her to sea.
We presume her whole crew are on board.
I have the honor,to be, most respectfully, your obedient servant,
DANIEL HOOD.

Hon. WM. P. FESSENDEN.




Letter from Secretary of the Navy to Hon. William P. Pessenden.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 27, 1861.

	I have the honor to inform you that a copy of the letter of Mr. Daniel
Hood, of Portland, in relation to the capture of the ship A. B. Thompson
by the rebel steamer Lady Davis, left by you at the Department, has
been sent to the flagofficer of the Atlantic Blockading Squadron.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
Hon. WM. P. FESSENDEN,
	U.	S. Senate, Washington.
123A

Page 34

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS-UNION,
34

Report of Commander Poor, U. S. Xavy, commanding U. S. S. Brooklyn,
relative to escape of C. S. S. Sumter from Mississippi River.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP BROOKLYN,
Off Balize, June30 [18611.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that this (Sunday) morning having
made a bark standing towards the South Pass, and considering her
movements suspicious, I left Pass a LOutre and stood for her. As her
course was from the land, she led me off some distance from Pass a
LOutre. While boarding her I discovered a war steamer (the Sumter)
standing down the river. As soon as the boarding boat returned, I
stood in to intercept her; but owing to the Brooklyns want of speed
was unable to get within gun range of her.
	She succeeded in passing out. I chased three and a half hours, but
finding I could not overhaul her, and being out of sight of my station
and having seen a sail standing in that direction, 1 ~ifeemed it neces-
sary to give np the chase and return. Fearing that this vessel, which
is more than a match for our gunboats in armament, might do great mis-
chief and hover about Cuba for the interception of the California mail
steamer, I dispatched a boat to the Massachusetts at Ship Island to
communicate with you with all possible dispatch.
	The Sumter, formerly the ifabana, is ,a propeller, painted black~ and
bark rigged. Her armament is as follows: One 68-pounder, pivot,
four 32-pounders.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
~C. II. PooR.]
	Flag-Officer WM. MERYINE,
Commanding Gulf Blockading Squadron.


Abstract of log of U. S. S. Brooklyn, Commander C. H. Poor, U. S. Yavy.
OFF PASS X LOUTRE, MISSISSIPPI P4YER,
June 30,1861.
	Prom 8 to meridian.Light wind from northward and westward
and cloudy.. Standing for the strange sail. At 9 took in all square
sails. At 9:30 boarded the English bark Augusta Jessie, from Villa
Rica. Informed her of the blockade and warned her off. At 10:30
made sail to topgallant sails. At 11 called all hands to muster and
administered the oath of allegiance to the entire crew. In chase of a
propeller bark coming out of Pass a LOutre. At 11:45 wind hauling
ahead. Clewed up and furled all sails.
	Prom meridian to 4.First part a squall of rain; middle part light
wind from southward; latter part moderate breezes from southward.
In chase of the strange steamer which showed secession colors. Did
not change the distance from her. Made sail to to~)gallant sails.
Crossed royal yards. At 3:25 the engines were slowed in consequence
of working water. Abandoned the chase and stood back for the Pass.



Report of Captain Ritchie, U. S. Navy, senior officer, Bay of Panama,
relative to protection of La Paz, Lower California.

U. S. S. SARANAC,
Bay of Panama, July 1, 1861.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of communication
from the Department of the 10th ultimo, enclosing an extract of a lette

Page 35

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	35

received by the Department of State relative to certain designs of the
insurgents of our country upon the province of La Paz, Lower (Dali-
fornia. With a special view to any movement of that nature, I will
instruct the present commander of the Wyoming, now on the eve of
sailing from this port, to call at La Paz and ascertain, if possible, the
existing cause for apprehension previous to proceeding to his station
off San Francisco.
	The St. Marys, now undergoing repairs at Mare Island, will be
instructed to carry out my former orders in cruising off Cape San Lucas;
also to touch frequently at La Paz and exercise constant vigilance in
that quarter.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
	ROBERT RITcHIE,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Captain and Senior Officer.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Flag- Officer Bell, U. S. Navy, late commanding United States
forces, ]Jliediterranean Sea, of arrival in New York in obedience to orders
from the Department.
U.	S. FLAGSHIP RICHMOND,
New York, July 3, 1861
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of this ship to-day at 5
p. m. We left Gibraltar on the 30th of May, stopped at Madeira to
replenish our coal, and sailed from the latter place on the 6th of Jane.
Oar passage has been much delayed in consequence of being compelled
to drag our propeller nearly the whole distauice across the Atlaiitic.
We made an attempt to raise it at Gibraltar, then again at Madeira,
and another time soon after we entered the region of the trade winds,
but without success.
	If it were not for the state of the machinery, I could report the ship
ready for immediate service. She must, however, go into dock to
ascertain and remedy the difficulty in regard to the propeller, which
will probably not cause a delay of more than three or four days. In
other respects the ship is in line order, her crew well drilled and in an
excellent state of discipline.
	I have made a report to the head of the Bureau of Construction and
Repair of the condition of the vessel, with suggestions to improve her
deficiencies. I consider the Richmond in her present state as an unsafe
vessel to be employed at sea on our coast; but she can perform good
service in thc Chesapeake Bay, where in a gale of wind she could gen-
erally anchor, or reach a place of safety for that purpose.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, yours,
	CHARLES II. BELL,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Flag-Officer.
Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Captain Ritchie, U. S. Navy, senior officer, Bay of Panama, c?f
movements of U. S. S. Wyoming in execution of orders to protect Cali-
fornia steamers.
U. S. S. SARANAC,
Bay of Panama, July 4, 1861.
	SIR:	In order to carry out the instructions of the Department and
afford protection to the U. S. mail steamers at San Francisco, 

Page 36

36	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

directed Commander Mitchell to remain with the Wyoming and cruise
oft the port; but, contrary to my express order, Commander. Mitchell
proceeded with the Wyoming to this port. On the arrival of that ves-
sel I notified Commander Mitchell of his dismissal from the service,
and in the absence of Commander McDougal I have placed the Wyo-
ming temporarily in charge of her executive officer, Lieutenant F. K.
Murray.
	The Wyoming will be immediately dispatched to San Francisco, with
orders to carry out my original instructions, via La Paz.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
ROBERT RITCHIE,
Captain and Senior Officer.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.




Letter from Elisha D. Smith, esq., to Secretary of the Navy, regarding a
remonstrance to the favorable treatment of a Confederate privateer by
authorities at St. Thomas, West Indies.
HARTFORD, July 5, 1861.
	SIR: The captain of the schooner Virginia Price, ten days from St.
Croix to the Connecticut River, has to-day informed me that when his
vessel, about eighteen days since, was in St. Thomas a privateer came
into that port under coyer of the United States fiag, disguising her
real character, and after obtaining, as is supposed, information in rela-
tion to American vessels in port, of which there were at the time seven-
teen in number, cleared and sailed during the night under cover of
what is termed a night pass. She, of course, had no papers but
such as the Confederate States could give her. When her character
became known to the public, which was not until after she had sailed,
there was a general expression of indignation that the authorities
should have permitted a vessel without United States papers, or legal
papers of any kind, to pass under such circumstances. A remonstrance
was made to the governor, but he excused himself by saying that
St. Thomas is a free port; that he had no power to prevent the transac-
tion, and referred the parties remonstrating to the U. S. consul, but
this official, it seems, is a citizeu of North Carolina, and at least open
to the suspicion, then, of favoring the pirate rather than otherwise. I
presume the substance of the foregoing may have come to your knowl-
edge, but to guard against any contingency which may have prevented
it, I have been induced to take the liberty of addressing you.
Yery respectfully,
ELISHA D. SMITH.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Endorsement.]


	Send copy to Secretary of State. The writer is known to me as a
highly respectable West India merchant, and would call particular
attention of the honorable Secretary [of] State to that part which refers
to the consul.
W[ELLES]

Page 37

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	37

Letter from the president of Board of Underwriters to the Secretary of
the Navy, requesting that naval regulations and signals be furnished
the ~ armed schooner.

COMMITTEE FOR MANAGING AFFAIRS OF THE
KEY WEST AND NASSAU AGENCIES,
New York, July 6, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to advise you that the underwriters schooner,
under command of Acting Master Moses Hoyt, will sail this day for
the Bahamas and Florida Reefs, via St. Thomas.
	Captain Hoyt is desirous of being placed in possession of a copy of
the Regulations for the Government of the Navy, which, if trans-
mitted to us, will be forwarded to him by the first opportunity.
	We would respectfully enquire whether Captain Hoyt might not be
put in possession of such naval signals as would enable him to com-
municate his character and identity to such of our national vessels as
he may fall in with.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
F.	S. LATHROP,
Chairman.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Report of Flag-Officer Bell, late commanding U. S. naval jorces, Mediter-
ranean Sea, of having struck his flag at New York.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP RICHMOND,
New York, July 9, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your order
detaching me from the command of the Mediterranean Squadron, and
have hauled down my flag this day.
1 have the honor to be, very respectfully, yours,
CHAS. H. BELL,
Flag- Officer.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



[Telegram.]

(Received July 12, 1861, from Newport.)
	Arrived. A brig from Bangor with part of crew of brig John Welsh,
from Trinidad (sugar for Falmouth), was taken by privateer Jeff. Davis
oft Hatteras on Saturday last. Captain Fifield, of brig John Welsh,
was put on board ship John (loodwin [Mary Goodell], of and from New
York for Montevideo, which vessel had been ransacked and was
allowed to proceed on account of her heavy draft of water. Same pri-
vateer took the schooner [brig] J. W. Warner, * of New York, and a
brig. The privateer was 100 miles southeast of Nantucket Shoals.
T.	&#38; J. COGGESHALL,
Agents, Board Underwriters.
	I-Ion. G. WELLES.

[Schooner S. J. Waring?

Page 38

	38	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		                 [Telegram]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 12, 1861.
	If you can reach the Cambridge, let her cruise three or four days.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy.
J.	M. FORBES, Boston.


[Telegram.]

(Received July 12, 1861, from Boston.)
	There is no doubt that privateer was plundering vessels last Monday
about 100 miles south Nantucket. The Vincennes (due) and Dale at
Portsmouth could be dispatched at short notice if ordered. Perhaps
Secretary Chase will also order revenue cutter to sea.
J.	M. FORBES.
	GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy.


[Telegram.]

NEW YORK, July 12, 1861.
	Have just received telegrajn from collector of Newport that the
Mary E. Thompson, from Searsport, Me., for Antigna, was boarded by
a Southern privateer brig in latitude 390 16, longitude 67~ 40, a day
or two ago.
HIRAM BARNEY,
Collector.
	Hon. S. P. CHASE.


[Telegram.]

(Received July 12, 1861, from Boston.)
	Privateer Jeff. Davis, Captain Postell, formerly in Navy, seen 100
miles southeast of Nantucket. Collector probably sends two sailing
revenue cutters to cruise. I have ordered gunboat Cambridge stopped if
possible at Woods loll, where she is available to cruise if you direct it.
J.	M. FORBES.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy.


Order from commandant navy yard, Boston, to Commander Handy, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. S. Vincennes, to cruise in search of privateer
Jeff. Davis.
NAvY YARD, BOSTON, July 12, 1861.
	SIR:	You will proceed to sea without delay with the U. S. S. T7incennes
under your command, and cruise for eight days in pursuit of the rebel
privateer Jeff. Davis, reported to have captured the brig John Welsh
off Cape Hatteras, and schooner [brig] J. W. Warner,* of New York,
about 100 miles southeast of Nantucket South Shoal; was seen in
that vicinity on Monday last, and is no doubt cruising over the track

V Schooner ~5. J. Waring?

Page 39

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUiSERSUNION.	39

of vessels from the eastward bound to New York, where you may find
or hear from her from the vessels you hill in with.
	You will examine suspicious vessels and capture those bearing the
secession or rebel flag. If you should be fortunate enough to thu in
with the Jeff. Davis you will capture and bring her to this port. After
diligently cruising over the track indicated for one week, yoa will
return to Boston and report the result of your cruise. The two revenue
cutters from this port will accompany you. I have not ascertained if
the Jeff. Davis is brig or schooner rig.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. L. HUDSON,
Commandant.
Commander ROBERT HANDY,
Commanding U. S. S. Vincennes, off Navy Yard, Boston.



Letter from J. M. Forbes, esq., to Secretary of the Navy, relative to C. AS~.
privateer Jeff. Davis.

BOSTON, July 12, 1861.
	SIR: After investigating the reports as to the privateer Jeff. Davis
and finding that the vessels reported taken are on the lists and were
in places where they niight have been taken, I am satisfied that the
report is authentic, and accordingly telegraphed you this morning.
The captain of the Jeff. Davis is said to be a Lieutenant Postell, for-
merly of U. S. Navy, but I can find no such man on the register.
	Commodore Hudson telegraphed to Cape Cod, and it is supposed
gave the information to the Preble, which sailed this morning. I have
telegraphed to stop the Cambridge at Woods loll and hope to succeed,
as she would be at a good point there to commence a cruise if you
should order it.
	The Pembroke is the only armed steamer here. She is refitting her
machinery, but could sail on Sunday with two 24-pound rifles added to
her present armament, and two 32s. No other armed steamer on these
waters.
	It seems quite important to improve all the chances, however slight,
of catching this impudent sea robber who ventures so near our port.
Evemi if we do not succeed. any activity shown now will be known to
the rebels and prevent their experimenting in the neighborhood.
Yonr obedient servant,
J.	M. FORBES.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy.



[Telegram.]
	JULY 12, 1861.
	Send any vessel you can find or hire after the privateer reported
southeast of Nantucket.
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Captain BREESE,	Secretary of Navy.
New York Navy Yard

Page 40

	40	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		                  [Telegram.]


(Received July 13, 1861, from New York.)
	Although unprepared for a long cruise, Iroquois can go to-day for
fortnight. Shall I send her this afternoon ~
SAML. L. BREESE,
Commandant.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES.
[Endorsement.]

	Need not send the Iroquois until ready, but hurry the vessel.
IG.Y.F.]


[Telegram.]

(Received July 13, 1861, from Brooklyn, N. Y.)
	Iroquois is ready and steam up; am I to send her after privateer or
noti None other can be sent for some days.
	Department telegram not understood; niust now detain liroquois
until Department is heard from.
SAML. L. BREESE,
(Jomnmandant.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES.



[Telegram.]

(Received July 13, 1861, from Boston, Mass.)
	Tineennes and two revenue cutters went to sea last night in pursuit
of rebel privateer Jeff. Davis.
W.	L. HuDsoN,
Commandant.
	Hon. 0-. WELLES.



Report of commandant navy yard, New York, relative to sending U. S. S.
Iroquois in search of privateer.

NAvY YARD, NEW YORK, July 13, 18G1.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowlege the receipt of Departments
two several telegrams of the 12th instant, the first inquiring how soon
the Iroquois woulci be ready and the second directing me to hire a ves-
sel and send her in pursuit of a privateer. To the first II replied, in
view of her going on a regular and appointed cruise, that she would
leave for sea on Wednesday next. On the arrival of the second dis-
patch, informing me of your desire to have a vessel dispatched at once
~n pursnit of the privateer, assured that I could not find a proper one
to hire and then prepare a battery and place it properly on board, man
and provision her, etc., in less time than three days, I conceived, in the
absence of more specific instructions from you, that the object of the
Department would be obtained more to its satisfaction if I dispatched
the iroquois, whose few deficits in outfit might well be dispensed with
for a fortnight, or until her coal was consumed, on this service. I have
therefore directed Commander Palmer to proceed this afternoon in th

Page 41

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	41


direction and for the purpose indicated in your last telegram. I enclose
copy of my instructions to him. Trusting that my action in this will
be consonant with the Departments views,
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SAML. L. BREESE,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
AS~ecretary of the Navy.

[Enclosure.]

NAvy YARD, NEW YORK, July 13, 1861.
	SIR: I am directed by the honorable Secretary of the Navy to dis-
patch a vessel in pursuit of a privateer brig reported to be cruising to
the southward and eastward of Nantucket Shoals. You will therefore
proceed with the Iroquois to that point, keeping a lookout for arid
examining all suspicious vessels, and in the event of your falling in
with this or any other privateer take possession of her and send or
bring her into port. The only information with respect to her that I
can give you for your guidance will be found in the papers of the day
with which you are provided. You are aware that a steamer privateer
&#38; mter is reported to have eluded the Blockading Squadron off the
Mississippi, and may also be in the same direction. When your coal is
about being exhausted you will return to this port to replenish and
obtain the few articles of outfit not now quite prepared.
	I am sure I need not inculcate the keeping a strict lookout and inces-
sant vigilance.
	Wishing you a fortunate result to your cruise, I am, very respectfully,
your obedient servant,
SAML. L. BREESE,
Commandant.
	Commander JAS. S. PALMER,
Commanding U. &#38; ~3. Iroquois, New York.


Order of &#38; cretary of the Navy to commandant navy yard, New York,

to send U. ~. ~. Iroquois in search of jprivateers.

[Telegram.]

NAvY DEPARTMENT, July 13, 1861.
	The following telegraphic dispatch has been received from J. M.
Forbes, Boston:
	CapLain Fifield, now here, was three days on board privateer, cruising along inner
edge of Gulf Stream. Tuesday night was in latitude 390, longitude 670 30. She is
full-rigged brig, formerly Echo, slaver; has four 32s or 24s, one long 18 pivot gun,
all old, now rifled; crew, about 70. Is receiving men from prizes; has had light
southerly winds; vessels from Portsmouth, Boston, Woods loll, New York, Chesa-
peake, each running east, would have good chance of cutting her off. No news from
Cambridge; Preble was notified ydsterday. Pembroke, the only armed steamer here,
could start Sunday morning. Ought to have a naval officer on board.

	Send the Iroquois out immediately for a ten days cruise.
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commodore BREESE,	[AS~ecretary of the Navy.]
Commandant Navy Yard, New York

Page 42

42	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS---UNION.

Report of commandant navy yard, Boston, of sailing of U. S. S. Yin.
cennes in search of privateer.

U.	S. NAVY YARD, BOSTON,
Commandants Office, July 13, 18G1.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform the iDepartiuent that in consequence
of the information received here of the capture of several vessels by the
rebel privateer Jeff. Davis, off Nantucket Shoals, I ordered the U. S. S.
Vincennes to sea last night in pursuit of her. I hope my action in this
case will meet the views of the honorable Secretary of the Navy.
	I enclose herewith a copy of the order * given to Commander Handy,
commanding the Vincennes; also copy of the statement of Captain
Fifield of brig John Welsh, captnred by the rebel privateer Jeff. Davis.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
W.	L. HuDsoN,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosures.]

Memorandum from Captain Fifield, of the brig John Welsh.

	Left Trinidad, Cnba, June 23, [1861.1
	On the 6th July, latitude 38~ 45, longitude 65~ 23, was captured by
full-rigged brig Jeff. Davis (formerly the slaver Echo), Captain Coxetter;
First Lieutenant Postell, formerly of the Navy; Second Lieutenant
Stuart.
	The J. D. mounts two 32 and two 24 pounder smooth-bore guns and
one long 18, all oi iron; old English guns an(l without shell. She
had plenty of double-barrel guns, muskets, cutlasses, and revolvers.
The brigs masts do not rake much; she has staysails between the
masts, and three jibs, besides a fore-topmast staysail.
	The foresail and the topgallant sails are cotton duck, the rest are of
dark canvas. She has abont 70 men; not many sailors among them.
She has 10 or 12 marine guard among the 70; draws l0~ feet water;
is all black, rusty, and old.
	Captain Fifield and 3 men, including mate, were put on board the
Mary Goodell, Captain MeGilvery, of New York, on the 9th July, in
tile evening (I p. in.), then in latitude 390 10, longitude 670 30. Also
Captain Smith and 3 men of the brig J. TV. Warner [S. J. Waring?], of
Brookhaven, from New York for Montevideo, taken on the 7th July.
One of her men enlisted in the Jeff. Davis. Also Captain Devereaux
and 3 of his cre of the schooner Enchantress. of Newburyport, hound
from Boston to St. Jago [Santiago] de Cnbajtakcim on the 6th. The
cook, a colored man, was left on board the Enchantress and on board
the J. W. Warner [i]the cook, colored man, 2 seamen, and I passenger
were left. Five of the crew of the Mary (Joodeli joined the pirates,
and when they left New York were well armed, and, as was said by one
of her crew, intended to take her the night of her capture had not the
Jeff. Davis done so.
	The foregoing is the verbatim statement of Captain Fifield of the
brig John Welsh.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
W.	L. HUDSON,
Commandant.
Seep. 38

Page 43

OPERATIONS OP TIlE CRUISERSUNION.
43
WASHINGTON, July 14, 1861.
	Captain Fifield; who was on board the privateer, is at the Astor
House. Let Captain Palmer see him, and then proceed to sea in the
Iroquois for a ten days crnise.
G.Y. Fox,
For the Secretary of Navy.
	Captain BREESE,
Navy Yard, New York.


[Telegram.]

(Received July 14, 1861, from New York.)
	Telegrams received. Iroquois left at 8 this morning.
SAML. L. BREESE,
	I Commandant.]
SECRETARY OF THE NAVY.


Report of commandant, navy yard, Portsmouth, N. H., of sailing of
U. S. S. Marion in search of privateer.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE, ~IAYY YARD,
Portsmouth, N. H., July 14, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that the Marion sailed from the
lower harbor early this morning. 1 received a telegram and a letter from
Mr. Forbes, of Boston, relative to the privateer to the south of Nan-
tucket, both of which were placed in the hands of Lieutenant [Win.
H.] Ball, commanding, and I hope that he may be able to fall in with
her.
I am, most respectfully, your obedient servant,
	G. F. PEARSON,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commandant.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


[Telegram.]

WASHINGTON, July 14, 1861.
Send the Pembroke out on one weeks cruise for the privateer.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
J.	M. FORBES, Boston.


Communication from commandant, navy yard, Washington, to Secretary
of the Navy, transmitting information of privateers.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE, NAVY YARD,
Washington, July 15, 1861.
	SIR:	The enclosed has been handed to me for transmission to the
Department.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	JNo. A. DAHLGREN,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES	Commandant.
Secretary of the Navy

Page 44

44	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

[Enclosure.]
	JULY 13, 1861.
	The Jeff. Davis, privateer, was formerly the slaver Echo. She left Charleston
about fifteen days since and passed out in the night. Besides which, there are now
three privateers, schooner rigged, fitting out at Charleston; also the steamer Gor-
don, and they were all ready or nearly ready for sea. We further learn that within
a few days a schooner, laden with rice, has passed the bar bound to New Orleans;
another schooner was loading for Havana with a cargo of rice. This business
should be stopped, and we would suggest that a fast steamer, under the direction of
an experienced captain, one well acquainted with the channels, should be dis-
patched at once and lie as near the bar as possible every night, by which means
these privateers and schooners can all be captured on their return.

	This information is direct from a person who was in Charleston
Tuesday, the 9th instant.


[Telegram.]

(1~eceived July 15, 1861, from Portsmonth.)
	The Marion sailed yesterday morning. Her commander acquainted
with particulars relative to privateer. The Dale will follow in her
track to-morrow or next day.
	G. F. PEARSON,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES.	Commandant.]



Letter from lion. Milton S. Latham to Secretary of the Navy asking
convoy for Catsfornta steamer Northern Light.

SENATE CHAMBER, Washington, July 16, 1861.
	SIR: In the name of the bankers of the city of New York and the
State of California, I have to ask you to send a war steamer to con-
voy the California steamer leaving Aspinwall about ~4th instant
through the West India Islands. The steamer Northern Light, leaving
Aspinwall as above stated, will have on board over $2,000,000 and
near 1,000 passengers, holding from $100,000 to $200,000 more. The
pirate Sumter is cruising south of Cuba and will no doubt be on the
alert to seize this valnable cargo.
	I do hope, sir, you will order a steamer at once to act as an escort.
With great respect, your obedient servant,
MILTON S. LATHAM.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy.


Letter from the governor of Massachusetts to Secretary of the Navy
urging measures for protection of commerce.

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS,
Executive Department, Boston, July 16, 1861.
	DEAR SIR: In view of the exploits of Southern privateers within the
last few days off our coast, a feeling of apprehension has come to per-
vade our mercantile community, surpassing anything which it has
experienced dnring the progress of hostilities thus far. There is seri-
ous trouble among all our insurance companies, caused by the actual
presence of a danger which they had confided in our naval efficiency
to avert, and there exists throughout every branch of trade which is
connected with our shipping an uneasiness which finds vent iii anxiou

Page 45

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	45

looks and words and expressions of indignation that the most stringent
measures are not adopted to strengthen the blockade and to scour
every privateer from our seas.
	I act no less as an exponent of public sentiment than of my own
feelings when I say to you that this community to the last man is pre-
pared to sustain the administration, in its utmost endeavors, no matter
what the sacrifice, no matter what the cost, to hermetically seal the
Southern ports; and that it is a universal belief in this community that
more extensive means of naval force are needed than are afforded by
our ships of war now in commission.
	In this connection I beg leave to again invite your attention to the
steamers Cambridge and Pembroke, which this Commonwealth offers to
sell to the United States, and also to recall to mind the propositions for
arming, equiping, and maintaining a fleet of small, light, swift-sailing
vessels, to cooperate in the blockade, which have been made to the
Navy Department under the direction of a committee of the Board of
Trade of Boston.
	If you will pardon me for addressing to you familiarly my opinions
on this subject (and I believe that they are coincident with those of
most of our merchants), I think that while it is eminently desirable to
increase our national steam marine, nevertheless if there are not now
on hand steam vessels to do a work which sailing vessels can doi. e.,
to complete the blockadeit is a matter of more importance to use the
sailing vessels for that purpose immediately than to wait for steam
gunboats to be completed for it.
Very truly and respectfully, yours,
JOHN A. ANDREW.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

	P. S.The whole blockade could be maintained by our New England
coasters acting as a naval corps of volunteers, if only authorized and
empowered by papers from the Government. The skippers and men
are keen and brave, the vessels strong and of light draft.
	J. A. A.


Letter from the collector of customs at Philadelphia to the Secretary of
the Treasury requesting that guns be furnished to coal vessels.

CUSTOM.IIOUSE, PHILADELPHIA,
Collectors Office, July 16, 1861.
	SIR: Captain George W. Edge and the owners of the ship John Carver,
now loading with coal for the gulf fleet, desire to be furnished with
2 guns suitable for the protection of their vessel during the voyage.
They will give ample security for the safe return of the guns.
	Captain James ONeil and the owners of the schooner Jamestown for
Key West, also loading with coal for the Government, decline proceed-
ing on the voyage unless they are in some way secured from loss from
capture by the pirates now infesting that region. I fear unless some-
thing is done to secure the owners of vessels with supplies for our fleet
against loss, supplies will be cut off.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	WM. B. THOMAS,
	Hon. S. P. CHAsE,	Collector.
Secretary Treasury

Page 46

	46	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		               [First endorsement.]


	The owners of the coal transports can be supplied with the small
guns not required for the naval service; but where the carriages and
equipments are not on hand it will be absolutely necessary to go out-
side of the navy yards to have the work performed.
	Should this course be determined upon by the Department, its special
authority will be necessary in case the expense is to be defrayed by the
Government. The precedent involves an unknown but probably large
expense, whIch deserves consideration.
	Very respectfully submitted.
ANDW. A. HARWOOD,
	Chief of Bureau.
[Second endorsement.]


	The John Carver is the ship that has chartered to go to the mouth of
the Mississippi. If they are not willing to take the coal let them put
it out.	J. L.


Report of commandant of navy yard, Portsmouth, of sailing of the U. S.
S. Dale in search of privateer Jeff. Davis.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE, NAVY YARD,
Portsmouth, N H July 17, 1861.
	SIR: The U. S. S. Dale sailed from this yard this morning.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
0-.	F. PEARSON,
Commandant.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Flag- Officer Mont.qomery, U. S. Navy, commanding Pa6iflc
Squadron, of arrival in Mexico from Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands,
and the absence of privateers in the Pacific.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Harbor of Acapulco, July 18, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform the Department of my arrival here
on the 15th instant with the Lancaster, in twenty-eight days from
Honolulu, en ronte for Panama. I have found the 6~yane and Narra-
gansett at anchor in this port, the latter having recently arrived from
Panama, for the relief of the tJyane. The steamer Wyoming also
reached here on the 16th instant from Panama en route to San Fran-
cisco, for the protection of mail steamers and our commercial inteie4s
on that coast, and will proceed to her destination immediately nfter
replenishing her supply of coal.
	Deeming it important to provide for the security of our commerce
in the Gulf of California and to guard against piratical intrusions in
the vicinity of Cape San Lucas, near to which our mail steamers
necessarily pass in their transit to and from San Francisco, I have
ordered Commander Bissell (previously under orders to return to
Panama) to proceed with the Cyane on that service

Page 47

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	47

	During my late cruise to the islands and from thence to this port I
have neither seen nor heard of any privateer in the Pacific. The
prevalence of calms aiid yery light winds along this coast would
render all attempts by sailing vessels to interfere with the transit of
mail steamers between Acapulco and Panama perfectly useless; and
the utter impracticability of obtaining coal, except from Government
or steamship companys depots, renders it quite certain that steamers
will not be used for privateering in the Pacific.
	I am informed, sir, of the existence of an order issued by the Depart-
ment to administer the oath of allegiance to the officers and crews of
the squadron under my command. I am truly happy to hear it. I
have not yet received the order or any official notice of its existence.
I hope to reach Panama in ten or twelve days and will then carefully
attend to that and all other instructions awating me at that place,
and have no doubt of then having the satisfaction to report the enthusi-
astic loyalty and patriotism of all on board of the Lancaster. I have
liO reason to believe, sir, that the honor of my flagship will be impaired
by a single exception.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

	I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	J. B. MONTGOMERY,
Flag- Officer, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Hon. GIDEO1~ WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.




Letter from the U. S. consul at Cura9ao to the U. S. consul at St.
Thomas, containing snformation regarding C. S. S. Sumter.

U.	S. CONSULATE, Cura~ao, July 18, 1861.
SIR:	I have to acquaint you of the arrival at this port of the steamer
Sumter, Commander It. Semmes, bearing the flag of the Confederate
States, on the 17th instant, from New Orleans, last from Cienfuegos ile
Cuba.
	At first an entry was refused, as she hove in sight about 7 p.m., and
the governor did not think lit to admit her without consulting the
colonial court, but she waited outside until morning and sent a dis-
patch with an officer on shore to the governor, when the court met,
and it was decided that she should enter the port, being a mau-of-war
vessel.
	The said steamer is now lying in this harbor. She will take on board
115 tons of coal and then proceed again to sea, a~~d it is reported that
she intends to cruise iu the Mona Passage so as to capture American
vessels. According to the report of her own officers to parties here, they
have already taken seven American vessels and sold them with their
cargoes at Cienfuegos de Cuba, and delivered to the consul at said port
the masters and crews to be sent home.
	It is believed here that this steamer will again visit this port when
she requires a new supply of coal, being already aware of her free
entry, consequently you will please inform this to any commander of
our war vessels, should there be one or more with you, so that they
may do the needful in behalf of our Government. You will als

Page 48

48	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

requesthimto come this way, as his presence here will interfere consider-
ably in the return of the steamer, and if she returns the needful may
be done to capture her.
	IhavethisdaywrittentotheDepartmentof State,and also to the
consul-general at Havana, communicating these facts, and as these
dispatches are of importance I beg to enclose them to you, requesting
you to forward them as soon as possible aud advise me the amount of
postage to be remitted.
	I shall keep you posted np by every mail and request you to do the
same with me.
I have the houor to be, sir, yours, very truly,
MOSES JESURUN,

U.	S. Consul.
J. T. EDGAR, ESQ.,
U.	S. Consul, St. Thomas.




Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Scott, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Keystone State, to search for C. S. S. Sumter, etc.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 19, 1861.

	SIR: You will proceed to sea at the earliest possible moment after
your vessel is ready, for the purpose of searching for the pirate Sumter
and giving protection to the next treasure ship from Aspinwall.
	Mr. McLane, the president of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company,
informs the Department that the Northern Light leaves Aspinwall
about the 25th instant and comes up through the Mayaguana [Man-
guana] passage for New York. If the Keystone State had been ready
in time, you would have been ordered to Aspinwall to convoy the treas-
ure steamer to New York. Now, however, you will proceed through
the Mayaguana [Mariguana] passage to the east end of Cuba and Haiti,
searching carefully for the Sumter, which is a black propeller, bark or
brig rigged, and carrying one 68-pounder and four 32s.
	In the neighborhood of this island the Department wishes you to
meet tue Northern Light and convoy her through all the islands, when,
if no information is obtained of the Sumter, you will proceed to Jamaica
to coal, thence to St. Thomas, and return through the islands to Havana
and Key West, where you will report for the Gulf Squadron. It is,
however, the direction of the Department after you have protected the
treasure steamer, that you should continue the search for the pirate
Sumter until something definite is obtained of her end, and the exact
route you will pursue is left to your judgment, after obtaining all the
information you can in the West Imidies. If you have time to reach
Kingston and coal and return to the neighborhood of Navassa by the
morning of the 28th instant, you may do so.
	As the treasure ships have orders to avoid all vessels, you may have
some difficulty in communicating with her.
I remain, very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
	Commander G. H. SCOTT,
Commanding Keystone State, Philadelphia

Page 49

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	49

Report of commandant of navy yard, Boston, of return of U. S. S. Yin-
cennes from search for privateer Jeff. Davis.

U.	S. NAVY YARD, BOSTON,
Commandants Office, July 20, 1861.
	SIR:	I have tlie honor to report that the U. S. S. Vincennes arrived
here this morning at 10 oclock after an unsuccessful cruise in search
of the privateer Jeff. Davis. She will be dispatched to sea as soon as
practicable, unless otherwise directed by you.
Inclosed please find Commander Handys report of the cruise.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
W.	L. HUDSON,

Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, W~tshington, D. C.

[Enclosure.]


U.	S. SLOOP OF WAR VINCENNES,
Off Navy Yard, Boston, July 20, 1861.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report to you the arrival of this ship after
an eight days cruise. Agreeably to yuur order of the 12th instant, I
proceeded to sea and cruised 125 miles southeast of Nantucket South
Shoal for the purpose of capturing the privateer Jeff. Davis, reported
to have been in that vicinity, but I regret to say that I could not
ascertain anything in relation to her from the vessels that were fell in
with by us. During the cruise we spoke the following vessels: On the
16th instant, the bark Benjamin Burgess, of and from Boston, bound to
Cienfuegos; the English brig Edith Ann, from the Virgin Isles, bound
to Westport, Nova Scotia. On 17th instant spoke pilot boat No.5 and
passed through a large fleet of fishing vessels. On the 18th spoke the
schooner B. Cline, of Bangor, from Elizabethport, bound to Salem, and
a schooner, whose name was not understood, that was bound to Phila-
delphia.
I am, sir, respectfully, your obedient servant,
ROBT. HANDY,
Commander.
Captain Wiw. L. HUDSON,
Commanding Navy Yard and Station, Boston, Mass.




Report of Commander Palmer, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Iroquois,
~f return from cruise in search of privateer Jeff. Davis.

U.	S. S. IROQUOIS,
New York, July 24, 1861.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report my return from a cruise of ten days,
which I have made agreeably to your directions, and regret to state
that, after overhauling and examining every vessel that at all answered
the description of the privateer, I could learn nothing of her.
I enclose a letter addressed to me from the chief engineer, showing

123A

Page 50

50	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

the repairs that are still necessary for our engine and boilers, and which
he tells me will occupy at least a weeks time.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAS. S. PALMER,
Commander.
	Flag.Officer S. L. BREESE,
Commanding jjfaval Station, New York.



Statement of circumstances attending capture of brig Win. ]VIc6~ilvery by
the C. S. privateer Uordon, July 25, 1861.

	Brig Win. ]IJicGilvery, Hiram Carlisle, master, sailed from Cardenas
July 19 with a cargo of 315 hogsheads and 23 tierces of molasses, bound
for Boston.
	On the 25th July, about 40 miles E. by S. from Hatteras, was fired
at by the privateer steamer Gordon, of Charleston, S. C. The first shot
fell short, the second went between the head stays and foresail. We
then hove to, when the steamer came up alongside and ordered us to
launch our boat and the cap~aiu and 4 men to go on board the
steamer. This I refused to do, when he threatened to sink us. After
being so threatened, ordered out the boat and took four men and went
on board. At the same time they sent a boat with six men on l)oard
the brig, armed with cutlasses, pistols, and bowie knives, wore the brig
round with her head to the westward, took her in tow, and towed her
into Hatteras Inlet. Upon anchoring they sent us ashore to the fort,
and after about three hours they sent us off to the steamer, where we
were put in irons for the night. Next morning the irons were removed
and we were sent out to the brig under a guard of four armed men, where
we remained four days, when they gave us a pass by steamer Aibernaric
to New Berne, N. C. Remained there eight days; was at liberty all the
time; was provided there by the quartermaster. Left there August
10 on schooner Priscilla, of Baltimore, which vessel had been seized as
a prize, but afterwards released. The C. S. Government paid our pas-
sage to Baltimore.
	They keptthe captains firearms, consisting of single-barrel gun and
5-barrel Colts revolver; also his nautical instruments, consisting ~of]
chronometer and spyglass; also a box of sugar belonging to captain.
Gave up charts, quadrants, and books.
	At Hatteras Inlet there are 14 feet [ofj water. The privateer force
consists of four steamers, sometimes as many as 6, besides several small
sailing vessels, sent as pilot boats, etc. When leaving there they had
sixteen prizes in all.
	If this place had been properly blockaded, none of these prizes could
have been taken in there.
HIRAM CARLISLE,
Master Brig Win. ]tlicGilvery.

[Endorsement.]


	Captain Carlisle made the above statement to me in New York Fri-
day. I have known him several years. He is a very reliable man and
his statement can be relied upon.
S.	P. BROWN,
Navy Agent

Page 51

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	51

Letter from C. H. Smith to the commandant navy yard, New York, regard-
ing capture of schooner Nathaniel Chase by the C. S. privateer Mariner,
July25, 1861.
BROOKLYN, August 19, 1861.
	SIR: I respectfully report to the Government, through you, that I was
captured on the 25th of July last, iu the schooner Nathaniel Chase,
commanded by Captain l)auiel Doane, off Ocracoke Inlet, by the Confed-
erate privateer Ma~ iner, Captain Berry, mounting two 12-pounders and
one rifle gun, with a crew of about eighteen men, from Ocracoke. I was
taken to Hatteras New Inlet, where, with the exception of from five to six
days in going to and returning from Raleigh, where I had to go nnder
gnard to get my passport, I was detained until the 12th of this mouth.
I left Hatteras on the 12th on a Baltimore schooner, and landed at that
place on the 16th. The Confederates at Hatteras New Inlet have one
fort of 10 guns and one of 6, and a garrison of 250 men, in charge of a
Major Andrews.
	The inlet permits vessels of 13 feet to enter over the bar. Inside I
left three privateers, consisting of the steamers Gordon, Wilson [Wins-
low], and Mariner. The Gordon has a crew of 50 men. There were two
brigs and two schooners, prizes, lying there. The shell from the frigate
that fired on the port about the 28th of July, with one exception, took
effect on the fort. The garrison was in daily expectation of another
attack. A ship could lie with safety about 2 miles from the fort. These
privateers, except the Gordon, go in and out of Ocracoke Inlet, as they
draw but 9 to 10 feet water. It was represented to me by some of the
crews of these vessels that they would make an attempt to unitedly
make an attack on the Daylight when she should appear off. It was
also told me that a number of small steamers were constructing to be
sent down the sound, for the purpose of lying in wait and running out
from Hatteras daily, for the purpose of making prizes.
	At Ocracoke there is no battery, but a force of 600 men as a guard
under a Captain [Thomas 1] Sparrow. From Hatteras Inlet a picket
guard is placed 9 miles north toward the cape. A lookout is kept at
the light-house on the cape and signals made from them to the inlet.
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES H. S~IITH.
	Commodore S. L. BREESE
Commandant Navy Ya~rd, New York.



Capture of C. S. privateer Petrel, William Perry commanding, by the
U.	S. S. St. Lawrence, Captain Purviance, U. S. Navy, commanding,
July 28, 1861.
(No report.

Abstract of log of U. 8. S. St. Lawrence, Captain H. Y. Purviance commanding.

	July 28, 1861.Off Charleston. At 6 a. m. commenced chasing sail
off lee bow. At 10 came up with her, when she hoisted the Confed-
erate flag and fired a gun. Beat to quarters and commenced firing.
The schooner tired three shots, one of which passed through the main-
sail and took a splin ter out of the main yard. The schooner hauled
down her flag after receiving two shots, one of which struck her bows,
and she sunk from the effects of it at 10:30. Got out the boats and
picked up the crew. She proved to be the Petrel, of Charleston

Page 52

52	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from Captain Hull, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Savannah,
to Flag- Officer Stringham, U. S. Navy, commanding Atlantic Block-
ading Squadron, on the capture of the American schooner Protector by
the C. S. privateer Gordon, July 28, 1861.

U.	S. S. SAVANNAH, At Sea, August 4, 1861.
	SIR: I deem it proper to inform you that on the 1st instant, while I
was near Oregon Inlet, north of Cape Hatteras, a small boat bearing a
white flag came alongside of the Savannah. Captain T. J. Linnekin,
who was in the boat with three men, late of the American schooner
Protector, of Philadelphia, from Matanzas, with a cargo of fruit, and
bound to Philadelphia, informed me that his vessel had been cap-
tnred on the 28th ultimo, a short distance from Cape Hatteras, by
the privateer Gordon, of three guus and abont 500 tons, and taken into
Hatteras inlet. After being detained a few days he was released with
his men and given some of his effects and furnished with a pass
01 release from the marshal of the district of New Berne. He had
passed up Pamlico Sound to Oregon Inlet, where his pass was endorsed
by the commanding officer, and he permitted to pass on. He came
alongside to notify me of the circumstances, and was on his way to the
Chesapeake Bay. He informed me that there were a large number of
small vessels fitted as privateers and rnnning out from the inlets south
of Cape Hatteras in the morning and returning at night with their
prizes, and that a good many American vessels had been captured in
this way.
	The inlets were Hatteras and Ocracoke, where there were strong bat-
teries erected. I have seen no vessels of suspicious appearance except
one brig, which ran aground on the Wimble Shoals while I was in chase
of her, and Captain Goldsborough, of the Union, afterwards set fire to
her, and she was burned to the waters edge.
	I am glad to say we are all well.
I am, very respectfully,
J.	B. HULL,
Captain.
	Flag-Officer S. H. STRiNcfHAM,
Commanding Atlantic Blockading Squadron, Hampton Roads.

[Enclosure.]


CONFEDERATE STATES OF AMERICA,
DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA,
Newbern, July 29, 1861.
	Whereas schooner Protector was captured by privateer steamer
Gordon on the 28th July, the following crew on board, that is, T. J.
Linnekin, master, Thos. Ross, mate, David S. Hart, cook, Eugene
Unenca, seaman, the said crew being on board a private unarmed vessel
not in the employment of the United States, the vessel being a vessel
trading between Philadelphia and the West Indies:
	Now, therefore, I, Wesley Jones, marshal of the district of North
Carolina for the said Confederate States, do, in the name of said States,
discharge the said prisoners from arrest in this case.
	Given under my hand at New Berne this day and date above written.
WESLEY JONES,
C.	S. ililiarshal

Page 53

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	53

Report of Flag- Officer Montgomery, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific
Squadron, of arrival at Panama, transmitting copies of additional
instructions to commanders of United States vessels on the coast of
Mexico and California.
U.	S. FLAGShIP LANCASTER
Bay of Panama, July 29, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival this day of the flagship
Lancaster at this anchorage in nine days from Acapulco.
	My dispatch No. 92, forwarded per last mail from Acapulco, notified
the 1)epartment of my meeting in that port with the sloop Gyane and
steamers Wyominq and Narragansett, en route to different points for
the protection of our Pacific mail steamers, etc.; and subsequently I
received a letter from Brigadier-General Sumner, dated July 10, enclos-
ing copy of an order from the War Department, instructing him to
act in concert with the naval commander on this station in preventing
any plans the secessionists of our country may attempt to execute for
subjugating or annexing Lower California to the so-called Southern
Confederacy, and also a copy of your letter, dated June 10, and
enclosure, relative to supposed designs of the secessionists upon that
Mexican province, and directing my special attention toward any
such movements in that quarter.
	Deeming it important, sir, to prosecute my original design of proceed-
ing to this port, in order at the earliest moment to obtain dispatches
awaiting me in the hands of Capt. Ritc~hie, I issued additional
instructions in reference to supposed hostile designs upon Lower Cali-
fornia to the commanders of the vessels now cruising on the coasts
of Mexico and California (copies of which are herewith transmitted),
and sailed on the 20th instant from Acapulco in company with the
Wyoming, bound to her assigned cruising ground off the port of San
Francisco.
	In pursuance of instructions contained in your letter of the 10th
instant, it was my purpose only to await here the arrival of the return
mail from the United States, and then, if not otherwise directed by the
Department, to proceed to the coast of Lower California and give my
personal attention to the security of all our interests in that quarter,
but a casualty of a very serious nature to the steamer Saranac, causing
a leak which may require her to proceed to San Francisco for repairs,
will impose upon me the necessity of remaining in charge of our inter-
ests at this port and on the isthmus until the St. Marys (now at Mare
Island) shall have relieved the Cyane, off Cape San Lucas, when the
latter will proceed to Panama.
	Of the injuries sustained by the -Saranac from striking the bottom
in a heavy swell at her anchorage, a special report will be made so
soon as the nature of them can be ascertained, for which immediate
measures will be taken, in time, I hope, by the ensuing mail.
	For the information of the Department I enclose herewith copy of a
letter received at Honolulu from Thomas Miller, esq., U. S. consul at
Hilo, reporting the recent discovery of a large lower mast drifted upon
the southern shore of the island of Hawaii, said by the natives to have
been thrown up in February or March last, the description of which
is believed to correspond with that of the lost sloop Levant. As I
could not, without a sacrifice of time incompatible with my duty and
earnest desire to hasten my return to the coast, proceed to Hilo, I
wrote to Consul Miller requesting him to communicate to me additional
information in regard to the mast, and to apprise me of all intelligence
he may hereafter receive in reference to the lost ship Levant

Page 54

54	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	The Fourth of July was duly observed on board the Lancaster, at
sea, by the display of our national flag at the masthead, reading of
the Declaration of Independence, and a salute at meridian.
	1 have respectfully to inform the Department of the transfer of the
following officers of this squadron, rendered necessary by the return
of Lieutenants Meade and Yan Zandt to the United States under
medical condemnation, and the resignatiou of Surgeon Green, late of
the Saranac, viz, Lieutenant Fitzhugh and Passed Assistant Surgeon
lord from the Lancaster to the Cyane; Surgeon Harlan from the Cyane
to the steamer A3aranac; orders dated at Acapulco, respectively, July
19 and 16.
I have the honor to be, sir, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Flag- Officer, Commanding Pacific Squadron.

Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[EnclosureB.]


U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Harbor of Acapulco, July 20, 1861.
	SIR: Officially apprised of the probability that privateers under the
secession flag have been fitted out for the purpose of intercepting the
United States mail steamers, in their transit with treasure from San
Francisco, you will proceed with the U. S. sloop Cyane, under your
command, to Cape San Lucas, and, cruising in that vicinity, afford
every protection in your power to said steamers, and as far as will con-
sist with the faithful performance of this duty you will also give your
attention to the security of our commercial interests in the Gulf of
California. You will endeavor always to sight the steamers while
passing Cape San Lucas and avail yourself of the opportunity thus
afforded for obtaining and forwarding your mails.
	Jam informed by Brigadier-General E. V. Sumner, commanding the
Military Division of the Pacific, of the existence of a report that
Colonel Van Dorn, of the secession army, has been seen at the head of
1,300 men on the road between San Antonio and El Paso, from which,
together with the information contained in the enclosed copy of a letter
received from the Navy Department, it is inferred that an attempt to
subjugate Lower California may be contemplated by the secessionists.
This must not be allowed if in our power to prevent it; therefore,
should any such exigency arise, ydu will promptly, in cooperation with
the troops of the United States or otherwise, do all in your power to
counteract and prevent the executioii of any such purpose by troops
in the service of States claiming to have seceded from our Federal
Union.
	You will please write to me by every mail, and promptly com-
municate whatever may seem to render my immediate presence with
the flagship, on this part of the coast or in the Gulf of California,
important to the public interests.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Flag. Officer, Commanding Pacific. Squadron.
	Commander SIMON B. BISSELTA~
Gommanding U. S. Sloop Cyane, Harbor of Acapulco, Mexico

Page 55

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Harbor of Acajpulco, July 20, 1861.
	SIR: I have been officially informed by Brigadier-General E. V.
Sumner, commanding lillitary Division of the Pacific, of the existence
of a report that Colonel Van Dorn, of the secession army, has been
seen at the head of 1,300 men on the road between San Antonio and
El Paso, from which, together with the information contained in the
enclosed copy of a letter received from the Navy Department, it is
inferred that an attempt to subjugate Lower California may be con-
templated by the secessionists. This must not be allowed if in our
lower to prevent it; therefore, should any such exigency arise, you
will promptly, in cooperation with the troops of the United States or
otherwise, do all in your power to counteract and prevent the execu-
tion of any such purpose by troops in the service of States claiming to
have seceded from our Federal Union.
	You will please write to me by every mail and promptly communi-
cate whatever may seem to render my immediate presence with the
flagship, on this part of the coast or in the Gulf of California7 important
to the public interests.
Respectfully, your obedient servant, ~ B. MONTGOMERY,

Flag- Officer, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
	Commander TIMOTHY A. HUNT
	Commanding U. S. S. Narragdnsett, Harbor of Acapulco, Mexico.
Lieutenant F. K. MURRAY,
Commanding U. S. S. Wyoming, Harbor of Acapulco, i exico.




Report ~f Commander Scott, U. S. Navy, co?nmanding U. S. S. Keystone
State, of cruise in search of Confederate cruisers and privateers.

U.	S. S. KEYSTONE STATE,
Kingston, Jamaica, July 31, 1861.
	SIR: In obedience to your orders I entered the Mayaguana [Man-
guana Passage on the Inorning of the 26th instant, and made the
east end of Cuba the same evening, and searched carefully between
the islands of Cuba and Haiti, running to the southward so far as
Navassa, nntil the night of the 28th. Nothing was seen of the North-
ern Liyht or the pirate Sumter, and I am led to believe the former
must have taken some other route, as both islands were kept in sight
during the night of the 27th and day of the 28th, when it was deemed
unnecessary to continue the search.
	I then proceeded to this island and arrived on the evening of the
29th. Considerabl ifticulty nd detention has occurred in procuring
coal,there being but a limited supply here, and that of an inferior quality
at high rates. I shall therefore not take a full supply. The paymaster
has only $200 on hand, and a draft will be given on the Department
for the payment of L e coal. I shall sail to-niorrow morning for St.
Thomas and continue the search for the Sumter until something defi-
nite is ascertained of lmei-.
	In the hurried departure from Philadelphia many small articles nec-
essary for the efficiency of the ship were not received, and must b

Page 56

56	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

purchased, which it is hoped will meet the approval of the Department.
The officers and crew enjoy good health,
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
G.	II. SCOTT,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.




Report of Commander Scott, U. S. Navy, commanding U. &#38; S. Keystone
State, relative to search for C. S. S. Sumter and privateers.

U. S. S. KEYSTONE STATE,
Island of St. Thomas, August 7, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my arrival here on the morning of
the 5th. We are now coaling, and as soon as the ship is filled I shall
again proceed in search of the Sumter.
	You will perceive by the enclosed communication to the consul of this
port that she coaled at Cura~ao on the 17th of July, and by the enclosed
article from a Trinidad paper that she coaled at that point on or about
the 30th of July.
	The privateer Jeff. J)avis I learn was on the north side of Puerto Rico
a short time since, for the purpose of capturing vessels passing through
the Mona Passage. I shall therefore run down the north side of Puerto
Rico, pass through the Mona Passage, and from thence to Cura~ao and
such other points as may be deemed best.
	I am led to believe the Sumter will continue about the Leeward
Islands, where coal can be had, for the purpose of intercepting the Cal-
ifornia steamers. I therefore beg leave to suggest that an additional
force may be directed to cruise in search of her.
	I visited the governor yesterday, and from his conversation I am sat-
isfied that coal will also be furnished here if required by the Sumter.
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant, G. II. SCOTT,

Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington City.




Order of Flag- Officer Montgomery, U. S. Navy, commanding the Pacifto
Squadron, to Commander lkliddleton, U. S. Navy, commanding the U. S.
sloop St. Marys, to proceed to the relief of U. S. S. Cyane, off Cape
San Lucas, and transmitting further instructions.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Bay of Panama, August 7, 1861.
	SIR: The moment you have prepared the U. S. sloop St. Marys for
service you will proceed with her to the relief of the C~yane, Com-
mander Bissell, cruising off Cape San Lucas. Should you not fall in
with the Cyane at the point indicated or at the anchorage of San Jose
(Lower California), you will probably find her at Mazatlan, to whic

Page 57

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	57

port you will proceed, and, upon relieving Commander Bissell, hand to
him the enclosed order to repair with his ship to Panama. Enclosed
herewith are instructions for your government in prosecuting the duties
assigned you.
You	will please, sir, keep me informed by mail of your proceedings.
lam, respectfully, your obedient servant,
[J. B. MONTGOMERY,]
Flag. Officer, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
	Commander EDwARD MIDDLETON,
Commanding U. S. Sloop St. Marys, San Francisco, Cal.

[Enclosures.]


U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Bay of Panama, August 7, 1861.
	SIR:	Upon being relieved by Commander Middleton, of the St. Marys,
you will proceed with the Cyane, under your command, with all practi-
cable dispatch, via Mauzanillo and Acapulco, to this port and report
to me.
	At Mauzanillo and during your run to Panama you will have a
vigilant lookout for secession privateers or pirates and vessels of
doubtful character which you may have sufficient reason to suspect of
being engaged in that service.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Flag- Officer, Commanding Pacific Squadron.

	Commander SIMON B. BISSELL,
Commanding U. S. Sloop Cyane, Cruising off Cape San Lucas.




U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Bay of Panama, August 7, 1861.
	SIR:	Officially apprised of the probability that privateers under the
secession flag have been fitted out for the purpose of intercepting the
U. S. mail steamers in their transit with treasure from San Fran-
cisco, you will cruise with the St. Marys, under your command, off
Cape San Lucas and afford every protection in your power to said
steamers, and as far as will consi~t with the faithful performance of
this duty you will also give your attention to the security of our com-
mercial interests in the Gulf of California. You will endeavor always
to sight the steamers while passing Cape San Lucas and avail yourself
of the opportunity thus afforded for obtaining and forwarding your
mails.
	I am informed by Brigadier-General E. V. Sumner, co mmnanding the
Military I)ivision of the Pacific, of the existence of a report that Colonel
Van Dorn, of the secession army, has been seen at the head of 1,300 nmeu
on the road between San Antonio and El Paso, from which, together
with the information contained in the enclosed copy of a letter from the
INavy Department, it is inferred that an attempt to subjugate Lower
California may be contemplated by the secessionists. This must not
be allowed, if in our power to prevent it; therefore, should any such
exigency arise, you will uromptly, in cooperation with the troops of th

Page 58

58	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

United States, or othcrwise, do all in your power to counteract and
prevent the execution of any such purpose by troops in the service of
States claiming to have seceded from our Federal Union.
	You will please write to me by every mail and promptly communicate
whatever may seem to render my presence with the flagship, on this
part of the coast or in the Gulf of California, important to the public
interests.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Flag- Officer, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Commander EDWARD MIDDLETON,

Commanding U. S. Sloop St. Marys, San Francisco, Cal.




Order of Flag- Qfficer Montgomery, U. S. Navy, commanding the Pacific
Squadron, to Commander McDougal, U. S. Navy, commanding the U. S.
S.	Wyoming,for change of cruising ground for the better protection of
American interests on the Pacific coast.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Off Panama, August 9, 1861.
	SIR: Along the coasts of Lower California, from the easterii dn(l of
the island of LSanta] Margarita (latitude 240) up to Bonita Island (lati-
tude 280 20, longitude 1150 50), there are two large bays (Magdalena
and St. Bartholomew), and other small bays and harbors, with good
anchorage, where privateers or pirates could lie iii wait for a favorable
opportunity to attempt the capture of our mail steamers or other Amer-
ican merchant vessels passing in that vicinity.
	It is well known that from October to April that part of the coast
and the spacious bay of Magdalena are annually visited by a great
number of our whaling ships, reaching, in the aggregate, to a large
amount of American property liable, unless duly looked after, to cap-
ture or destruction. It is therefore deemed advisable to change the
cruising ground of the Wyoming, under your command, from her pres-
ent position off the port of San Francisco (where, I am advised by the
agent of the steamship company and Captain Watkins, that protection
is not so much needed) to the line of coast indicated between the lati-
tudes of 240 and 28~ 20 N., longitude 1150 50 W., to which station
you will proceed upon the receipt of this order and give the fullest pro-
tection in your power to our mail steamers and also all other American
interests on I that] part of the coast.
	In order to economize in the use of your coal, so far as may consist
with a faithful and efficient execution of the duties assigned you, keep
the Wyoming under sail, replenishing your stock of coal, when neces-
sary, at San Francisco.
	Mails for the Wyoming will be forwarded to the post-office at San
Francisco.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Flag- Officer, Commandi~~g Pacific Squadron.

Commander DAVID MCDOUGAL.
Commanding U. S. S. Wyoming, San Francisco, Cal

Page 59

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUTSERSUNlON.

Letter from George W. Bhtnt, esq., to Secretary of the Navy, regarding
defenses and privateers in North Carolina.

NEW YORK, Au gust 9, 1861.
	Siu: Captain Campbell, of the brig Lydia Mart ~n, which was wrecked
on Cape Hatteras in May, has been to see me. From him I have the
following information. He arrived here yesterday.
	At Hatteras Inlet there are two forts, sand breastworks, with 12
guns and 300 men. The forts are on the eastern side of the inlet.
There are three privateers therethe Gordon, side-wheel steamer, 175
feet long, 3 guns, caliber not known; Warren Winslow, side-wheel,
2 gnns, one 32, one 8 pounder; York, pilot boat, 90 tons, 1 gun.
	At Ocracoke there is a fort of 15 to 20 guns, 500 men on Beacon
Island, and one privateer, the Marion Mariner ?1, screw, of 2 guns.
	I shall send a copy of this to Commander Stellwagen, at Baltimore,
to whom I sent two reliable pilots last evening.
I remain, yonrs, respectfully,
GEO. W. BLUNT.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.




Letter from representatives of marine insurance companies of Phila-
delphia to Secretary of the Navy, conveying information regarding
privateering in North Carolina.

PHILADELPHIA, August 9, 1861.

	SIR: The importance of acquiring accurate information as to the
whereabouts and movements of the piratical vessels now preying upon
our commerce in Southern waters seems to the undersigned, repre-
senting the marine insurance companies of this city, so great that they
take the liberty of communicating to the Department the following
statement, made to them by Captain French, of the brig B. I. Martin,
lately captured by the rebels.
	Captain French is a man of intelligence, and his account is entitled,
in our opinion, to great weight as that of a shrewd eyewitness. The
brig B. T. Martin sailed from Philadelphia for Havana on the 20th
day of July last, and was captured a few days after, in latitude
360, about 110 miles to the eastward of Hatteras, by the privateer
York, a pilot boat, mounting one rifle cannon of 8 pounds, on a pivot;
captains name, Geoffroy. A prize crew was put on board the brig amid
he and his men transferred to the York. Saw no vessels of war until
well in with the land, when the brig was chased by the U. S. S. Union
and beached by the rebels and afterwards taken and burned by the
Union. Captain French was taken into Hatteras Inlet, where lie
remained from eight to ten days, well treated by the rebels. There is
a regular channel, easily found, and well described in the last edition
of Coast Pilot; the water was about 14 feet on the bar, as they went
in on the young flood; bottom shifting sand, and at full tide 16 feet can
be carried in. It would be best to obtain a pilot, if possible. Captain
F., however, is confident that he could take a vessel in with safety. A
steamer on a calm day could lie outside the bar, out of range of the
batteries, and, with a rifled cannon of size, bombard the fortifications.
	The anchorage inside is good, but the batteries command it. Cap-
tain F. states that there are two intrenchments thrown up, one on the hill
with four 32-pounder smoothbore guns, and the other below with 

Page 60

60	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

guns. They were expecting a rifled 64-pounder gun within a few weeks.
lie thinks that the place can be attacked and taken with little or no
loss of life by engaging the forts with one or two vessels, at the same
[timej landing 50() men to the eastward on the beach out of range of the
batteries. The number of men there is only about 250, arme(I with
muskets; and no reenforcements nearer than Oregon, 40 miles distant.
The battery can be taken in the rear.
	He heard that eighteen privateers were out; three were at Hatteras
Inlet York, Coffee, and Gordonxvhicli generally went out in the morn-
ing and came in at night. During his stay three American vessels,
under British flag, sailed for Europe, two or three for Halifax, and from
four to six for the West Indies. They enter and go out with impunity.
	We would respectftilly request a careful consideration of the above-
narrated facts. The loss of property is and has been very heavy. The
B. T. M. and her cargo alone were worth $60,000.
	Any project by which this nest of pirates could be broken up would
be hailed with gratitude by all interested in commerce.
Very respectfully, your obedient servants,
CHARLES PLATT,
Secretary Insurance Company North America.
Tnos. C. HAND,
Vice-President Delaware Mutual Insurance Company.
HENRY P. SHERRERD,
President of the Insurance Company of the State of Pennsylvania.
iRIdHD S. SMITH,
President of Union Mutual Insurance Company.
J.	R. WUCHERER,
President Pha~nix Mutual Insurance Company, of Pkiladei~hia.
WILLIAM CRAIG-,
President American Mutual Insurance Company.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.
[Endorsement.]


	Answer in three or four days, statin g our intention and efforts have
been for some time engaged towards relieving the country of these
piratical movements, although it was not deemed advisable to give
publicity to all our doings and thereby put the pirates on their guard,
etc.


Destruction of the C. S. privateer York by the U. S. S. Union, Com

mander Goldsborough, U. S. Navy, commanding, August 9, 1861.

Report of Commander Goldsborougli, U. S. Navy.

U.	S. S. UNION, [August 10, 1861.]
	FLAG--OFFICER: I have to report the complete destruction of the
rebel privateer schooner York (her name changed, I learn, to Florida),
under the following circumstances: Early on Friday morning, Cape
Hatteras light-house in sight, bearing W. by S., distant 12 miles, we
discovered two suspicious looking sails, one close in under the land
and the other to seaward. I gave chase to the one under the land, and,
from her maneuvering, I suspected all was not right. She attempted
to go into New Inlet, but that fortunately I could prevent. H

Page 61

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	61

then tacked and stood direct iii for the land, ran his vessel on shore,
set fire to her in several places, and all oil board made their escape.
She was a schooner of about 65 or 70 tons burden, painted lead color,
and mounted one gun on a carriage amidships, which was throwii
overboard. We remained by until she was burned to the ~ edge,
and then gave chase to the one to seaward. She proved to be the
Texan schooner Geo. CL Baker, taken by the U. S. S. South Garolina
on tile coast of Texas and bound to New York; recaptured by tile
piratical schooner York 75 miles northeast of Cape Hatteras. I placed
a prize crew on board, and have brought 11cr into port. Her piratical
crew, 4 in number, are in irons now on board this vessel. I had boarded
the Geo. U. Baker the day previous. She was commanded by a Mr.
Abbott with a prize crew of 5 men from the U. S. S. South Carolina.
They are now prisoners to the rebels.
I am, very respectfully, etc.,
J.	IR. GOLD~BOROUGH,
Commander.
S.	H. STRINGIIAN,
Flag- Officer.

	List of prisoners from the prize schooner George G. Baker. Patrick McCarthy, sea-
man; Arch. Wilson, seaman; John Williams, seaman; James Riley, seaman.

[Enclosure.]

	Archibald Wilson will take two men and carry the schooner George
G. Baker to Hatteras Inlet, or any port in the Confederate States he
um ny feel prudent to go to, and obey verbal orders given him.
	Said schooner is a prize of the privateer York, captured this 8th
day ol August, 1861.
T.	L. SKINNER,
Captain.


Abstract of log of U. S. S. Union, Commander 3. U. Goldsborough.

	August 9, 1861.At 9:30 a sail reported; chased her. From 12 to 4
p. m. chased the privateer York on shore about 4 miles south of Bodies
Island light-house. The pirates, after throwing overboard their gun,
set fire to the vessel. Fired several shots at parties on the beach.
The York drifted out to sea a mass of flames. At 3:30 p. in. boarded
and took possession of schooner U. CL Baker, a prize to the privateer
York. She had been recaptured from a United States prize crew.
Brought aboard her crew and put them in double irons. Sent Masters
Mate Martin to take charge of prize.



Report of Acting Masters Mate Abbott, U. S. Navy, of the recapture by the C. S. privateer

York of the schooner Geo. G. Baker, prize to the U. S. S. South Carolina.

NORFOLK, VA., August, 1861.
	DEAR Sra: The unpleasant duty devolves upon me of herewith
reporting my capture and that of my men, five seamen, a prize crew
from the U. S. S. South Carolina, and our confinement here as prisoners
of war. The men are without a change of clothing, theirs all being on
board the Baker, now at Fortress Monroe or New York. I have no
doubt clothing would be given them here, but they prefer their own, if
it can be obtained

Page 62

62	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I would respectfully request for myself a small sum of money. I
have drawn nothing since the coming of the South Carolina, except the
small advance. I do not know the rules of the Department in such
cases, and for that reason make this request with much hesitation, but
receiving nothing as yet from those I have written to I
	I am, sir, respectfully,	am obliged to.
W.	ABBOTT,
Masters Mate, U. S. Navy,
And late Prize Master of Schooner (3eo. U. Baker.
Hon. SECRETARY OF THE NAVY.




Report of Captain Wynn, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Macedoni an,
enclosing information front vice-consul at Havana, Cuba, relative to
operations of C. S. S. Sumter dftd movements of blockade runners.

U.	S. S. MACEDONTAN,
Key West, Fla., August 10, 1861.
	SIR: I enclose herewith a communication from Thos. Savage, U.S.
consul-general at Havana, received this morning and opened by me.
I regret that there are no means at my disposal to act in the case. The
Crusader is in port, bnt is deficient in speed and force, even if there
were no other reasons for not sending her in pursuit of the Sumter. A
smart steamer like the Iroquois, with a smart captain, knowing some-
thing of the navigation within a circuit of 500 miles of Cape San
Antonio (of Cuba), would stand a good chance for catching the Sumter,
or for badgering her into port in a very short time.
	The U. S. S. Rhode Island, Lieutenant Commanding 5. 1). Trench-
ard, arrived here on the 8th, and sailed again yesterday for Pensacola
offing, after having dispensed very acceptably a days fresh provisions
to the United States vessels in port.
	The Preble, Commander French, arrived here yesterday, and will
probably proceed to join Flag-Officer Mervine on Tuesday, as I learn.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAMES GLYNN, Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosure.]


CON8ITLATE~GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Havana, August 9, 1861.
	SIR:	Having received this morning, from a source that I deemed
reliable, the information that an American bark called the Joseph ]IIax-
well was brought into Cienfuegos on the 6th instant, by a prize crew
of the steamer Sumter, of the rebel government, having on her voyage
to Porto FPuertoi Cabello been taken near La Guaym-a, I innuedi-
ately called on the acting governor-general to ascertain if the informa-
tion was correct, and if so, what action had been taken by the author-
ities. His excellency replied that an American slmip had been carried
in tow by the armued steamer Sumter into the harbor of Cienfuegos;
that the lieutenant-governor of that place had advised him by tele-
graph of time occurrence, and that he, the lieutenant governor, had
made known to the commander of the Sumter that unless his ship or th

Page 63

OPE1~ATIONS OF THE CRIflSERSUNION.	63

prize were actually in distress he could not allow them to remain in
the harbor, and that therefore they must leave ~vithin twenty-four hours;
that he then telegraphed to the lieutenant-governor instructions to
communicate to the superior government of the island anything further
that mVht trawpire, but nothing more had been received from the
lieutenant-governor, and lie supposed the Sumter and the prize must
have left. I asked his excellency why the J. Maxwell was not placed
in the same category as the six vessels taken last month into Cienflie-
gos by the Sumter, and he answered that the six vessels ha not been
released in consequence of orders emanating from the captain-general,
but of the consent giveii by the captors themselves.
	Yesterday the schooner Major Barbour, under British colors, came
from New Orleans with dates to the 25th ultimo. On the 3d instant the
British schooner Adeline arrived here from Savannah; a few days ago
a British brig also arrived in Cardenas froni Wilmington, neither of
them having even met or seen any of our blockading Ileet. 1 give you
notice that a Spanish brig, called the 3d1a Engracia, has been cleared
by a merchant here called iDu Santos Villaverde, for Campeche, carry-
ing 3,000 quintals of coal, 2 boxes of preserves, and 500 empty deiiii-
Johns. I strongly suspect that the coal is intended for the Sumter, which
will go for it to the C~ mpeche Bank or in Sisal, or in that neigborhood.
Other good Americans and friends entertain the same suspicion.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
THOMAS SAVAGE,
U. S. Vice- Consul- General.
	SENIOR OFFICER COMMANDING ANY IT. S. MAN-OF-WAR,

Key West.


Report of Flag- Officer Inman, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. 4frican
Squadron, of the departure for the United States, in obedience to Depart-
ments orders, of United AStates ~essels under his command.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP CONSTELLATION,
St. Paul de Loanda, August 11, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform the Department that I arrived here
from St. helena on the 7th instant, all the squadron, except the Sara-
toga, having arrived a day or two before me, as directed.
	The mail, just due, brought to me the duplicate of the letter of the
Department, dated 9th ot May, 18~1, with a postscript dated 14th of
the same mouth. In compliance with the instructions thus conveyed,
the sioop J~ortsmouth, Commander John Colhoun, sailed for Ports-
mouth, N. 1-1., on the 9th instant.
	The steamer Surmuptek-, Lieutenant Commanding James F. Armstrong,
and steamer Mystic, Lieutenant Commanding WilbamE. Lelloy, sailed
on the 10th instant, the former for New York and the latter for
Philadelphia, both to touch at Monrovia, Liberia, where they were to
discharge Kroomen, and to make the best of their way to the United
States, stopping where it might be Lecessary for coal or other supplies.
	The steamer ]Jiohican, Commander S. XV. Godon, is receiving coal,
and will sail on Tuesday next, 13th instant, for Boston direct, unless
it should be necessary to stop for coal or other supplies, as provided
for in her sailing orders.
	The slOOl) Saratoga arrived here on the 9th instant and was ordered
to fill up with provisions and stores from the storeship Relief, and t

Page 64

64	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

purchase such sufficiency of bread and other articles that the Relief
could riot supply. The Saratoga was theu to sail for Fernando Po,
where Commander Taylor was to transfer the command to Captain
Glendy, and then to take passage in the San Jacinto to the United
States.
	Captain John S. Nicholas returned to the United States by advice
of a medical survey on the 14th of June last, thus leaving the Con-
stellation without a captain. Captain Charles Wilkes being ordered to
assume command of the steamer San Jacinto, I have ordered Captain
Thomas A. iDornin to take command of my flagship, the Constellation.
	With a view to carry out the order of the Department for the
return of the several vessels as soon as practicable, I have caused the
Saratoga and San Jacinto to meet Captains Glendy and Wilkes at Fer-
nando Po, the latter vessel being placed temporarily under command
of her executive, Lieutenant D. MeN. Fairfax. She sailed for that
island on the 10th instant (yesterday), carrying the necessary orders
and instructions (copies sent herewith) to effect the purposes directed
by the Navy Department.
	The storeship Relief, Commander John De Camp, will sail for New
York in a day or two, after supplying the Saratoga and receiving from
the latter her invalids and some prisoners taken in slavers, with the
witnesses against them.
	The flagship Constellation, Captain Thomas A. Dornin, is now under
way, bound to Portsmouth, N. H., direct, and bears this letter to the
United States.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. INMAN,
Flag- Officer, Commanding U. LS. African Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosure.]


U.	S. FLAGSHIP CONSTELLATION,
-	St. Paul de Loanda, August 9, 1861.
	Sin: As soon as the San Jacinto shall arrive at Fernando Po, if Cap-
tain William M. Glendy is present, you will be pleased to exhibit to
him this order, which you will then act upon. lii his absence you will
carry it into effect, as follows:
	You will make its purport known to Lieutenant D. MeN. Fairfax,
executive lieutenant, temporarily commanding the San Jacinto, who is
ordered to transfer to you that command, together with all the orders
and instructions by wlueh he has been governed. The Sa Jacinto is
to have her coal fully filled up and to be kept in all respects ready for
departure as soon as the sloop SaratQqa may arrive.
	When Commander Alfred Taylor shall have transferred the comlnan(l
of that vessel to Captain Glendy, you will inform the latter of your
readiness to proceed in obedience to this order, which you will do after
Commander Taylor shall have reported on board the San Jacinto for
passage to the United States. You will then make the best of your
way with the San Jacinto to Monrovia, Liberia, and thence to Phila-
delphia, Pa., in the United States.
	At Monrovia you will discharge all Kroomen whatever, after which,
and as soon as you can be ready, you will proceed to the port of your
ultrin ate destination. You are authorized to stop where it may be nec

Page 65

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	65

essary for coal or other supplies. Upon your arrival at Philadelphia
you will report in writing to the Navy Department and to the corn-
maiidant of the station.
	I wish for you a successful voyage.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. JNMAN,
	Flag- Officer, Commanding U. S. African Squadron.

	Captain CHARLES WILKES, U. S. Navy,
Ordered to command U. S. S. San Jacinto, Fernando Po.



Report of Lieutenant Porter, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Pow-
hatan, relative to prize schooner Abby Bradford and C. S. S. Sumter.

OFF SOUTHWEST PASS, MISSISSIPPI RIVER,
August 13, 1861.
	SIR: I this day send home the prize schooner Abby Bradford, cap-
tured by me this morning 20 miles to the west of the Missis8ippi
River. She was captured by the rebel steamer Sumter off Porto
[Pnerto] Cabello, the ninth prize that vessel has taken. All the others
have been lost to her. One she burned at sea. 1 send herewith a muster-
roll of the crew of this ship. The Sumter is short of coal aiid is at
Porto [Puerto] Cabello. I sail to-night for Pensacola to report the cir-
cumstances to the flag-officer, and hope to induce him to let me go in
search of the Sumter.
Very respectfully, your obedient, DAVID D. PORTER,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Lieutenant, Commanding.
Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Lieutenant Porter, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Pow-
hatan, enclosing captured correspondence.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP POWUATAN,
	Southwest Pass, Mississippi River, August 13, 1861.
	SIR: I beg leave to enclose some correspondence * captured in the
Abby Bradford, which I did not think it safe or prudent to send home
in the vessel, and it will serve as evidence hereafter against nearly all
the officers of the rebel steamer Sumter.
	Captain Semmes letter is a pretty fair account of his proceedings.
So far we have only lost one vessel by the Sumter (burned at sea), though
her commander is under the iml)ression that his prizes are all secured
to him, He is in a position noW where he cant escape, if properly
looked after. He is out of coal and out of credit.
	I have the honor to remain, very respectfully, yonr obedient servant,
	DAVID D. PORTER,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Lieutenant, Commanding.
Secretary of the Nary, Washington, D. C.
For enclosure see Coufefferate reports, pp. 622, 624, 625.
123A

Page 66

66	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Lieutenant Brasher, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. brig

Bainbridge, relative to C. S. S. Sumter.
U.	S. BRFZ~ BAJNBRIDGE,
Aspinwall, New Granada, August 15, 1861.
	SIR:	Since my communication by last steamer, dated August 3,1861,
no event of importance has transpired at this post. Consul Robinson,
of this port, is informed by letter from the U. S. consul at Carthagena,
that the latter was informed by U. S. consul (Jesurun) at Cura~ao
that the rebel steamer Sumter coaled at that port under date of 13th
July. A Jamaica paper reports the Keystone State coaling at Kings-
ton on the 1st of August.
	The native general, Mosquera, it is generally thought, had occupied
Bogota, but it is not known at what time or with what force he may
move to occupy this point and the State of Panama. It is believed,
but not officially known, that the Danish authorities permitted o
allowed the rebel vessel Sumter to be coaled and provisioned. Of the
nioveinents of that vessel or her present locality I do not gain any
information. I receive no information of the enemys design on this
point.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
T. M. BRASHER,
Lieutenant, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.




Letter from collector of customs at Newport, R. I., to Secretary of the
Navy, requesting instructions regarding prize schooner Adelso.

CUSTO I-HousE, NEWPORT, R. I.,
Collectors Office, August 16, 1861.
	SIR:	The schooner Adelso, of St. John, Kimball master, from Wil-
mington, N. C., put iuto this port on the 13th instant, said schooner
having run the blockade on the 6th. I requested Captain Bennett, of
the revenue cutter Henrietta (then lying in this harbor), to put a prize
crew on board. Wingate Hayes, esq., district attorney, being in this
city, I called upon him for instructions. He directed that no person
should be allowed to come on shore nor anyone to go on board except
the officers of the revenue, and also directed all the papers found on
board to be sealed up and the same to remain until further advised.
	There is a French gentleman, a passenger, on board who has been
detained under the above instructions. Should like to be advised in
the matter. Have been expecting to hear from the district attorney.
I wrote the honorable Secretary of the Treasury as soon as possible.
As yet have received no answer.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
S.	W. MACY,
Collector.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 67

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	67

Letter from the master of the captured schooner Herbert Manton to Sec-
retary of State, giving account of affairs at Hatteras Inlet.

OSTERYILLE, MASS., August 16, 1861.
	DEAR SIR: flaying been captured by a steamer called the Winslow
(formerly the J. E. Coffee, of Norfolk), it has been suggested to me that
the facts concerning my capture might be of use to you.
	I sailed from Zarza, on the south side of Cuba, on the 20th of June,
and having no intimation that privateers were abroad I came around
the west end of the island and saw nothing suspicious, neither did I
see any Federal vessels. I followed the Gnlf Stream until the morning
of the 3d of July, when, the wind hauling easterly, I soon found myself
upon soundings. Having had 110 observation on the 2d I was not cer-
taiii of my position, but supposed myself in the latitude of Cape Hat-
teras. I therefore kept on to the N. by W. and shortly made the land
in the vicinity of Ocracoke inlet. This was about 8 a. m. 1 tacked to
theE. S. E. and continued standingtothe eastwarduntil captured, which
happened at 1 :30 p. m. The steamer came down upon me from to wind-
ward, and the wind being light he had no difficulty in overhauling me.
The said steamer is a side-wheel steamer with heavy guards, and when
it is rough she can not go but a short distance out. She has only two
guns, a 32 pounder pivot and a small brass rifled piece, a 6-pounder,
mounted above that. They took my vessel into Hatteras Inlet and
subsequent}y to Newbern, where they discharged her cargo of sugar
and molasses arid anchored the vessel in the river. My crew were put
in jail and myseli detained on board the steamer until the 23d of July,
when we were released and were allowed to ship on board of three dif-
ferent schooners, under the English flag and bound for Halifax, which
we all did.
	At the time I was captured I was fully 25 miles S. E. of Hatteras and
in the Gulf Stream, and had a war vessel been in the vicinity could
easily have been recaptured. I saw but four war vessels iu the offing
during my stay at Hatteras, a period of twenty days, and during that
time there were three prizes taken and brought in.
	Hoping the above statement can be of some service to you in some
way or other, I remain, yours, very respectfully,
SIMEoN BACKUS,
Late Master of Schooner Herbert Mianton.
The SECRETARY OF STATE.



Letter from Messrs. F. &#38; ~. W. Blunt to Secretary of the Navy,
enclosing memoranda regarding condition of affairs at Hatteras Inlet.
179 WATER STREET,
New York, August 16, 1861.
	SIR: The enclosed statement we received from Captain Conley, who
was captured by the pirates.
Yours, respectfully,
E.	&#38; G. W. BLUNT.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES.
[EnclosureMemoranda. ~

	The light-house at Cape Hatteras is now used as a lookout place for
the rebel privateers, the fleet lying at anchor in the inlet. Our inform-
ant left there on the 12th. There were then there the schooners
[steamers] Gordon and Winslow and the propeller Mariner. The for

Page 68

68	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

mer ran the blockade of Charleston; mounts two 62 and two 32
pounders, manned by 50 men; draws too much water to go over the
swash, so that she can be shelled easily from the outside. There are two
small sand batteries mounting 12 guns, some of them rifled and heavy,
but most of them 32-pounders.
	There were about 300 men in the forts, without discipline apparently.
Troops can be landed on the beach between the light-house aud inlet
when the wind is from the N. E. around to west.
	The forces there expect to be attacked and are improving their
detirnses. There were there the following prizes: Brig Itasca, three
light-ships (two used as storehouses the other as a hospital), brig
William MeGilvery (used as a storehouse), schooner Sea Witch, schooner
henry Nutt, schooner Nat haniel Chase, schooner Herbert Afanton,brig
Hannah Baich, a schoo ncr from New London called the Transit, and
one name not remembered.
	The fort can be approached from the eastward to within 1 mile in
vessels drawing 20 feet of water.
	The stairway in the light-house should be destroyed.
Captain JOHN CONLEY, Orrinyton, life.


Report of Commander Schenek, U. S. iVavy, commanding U. S. S. Saginaw,
allaying apprehension relative to a supposed privateer in Chinese
	waters.	~. ~. S. SMm~~w,

Shanghai, August 17, 1861.
	SIR: In my communication of the 8th instant I informed the Depart-
ment of what appeared to me a well-authenticated rumor of a privateer
fitting out at this place. I left Hongkong on the 9th, and was fortu-
nate enough to fall in with the Neva, the suspected vessel, on the 13th.
She was just outside of the Wusung River; after a thorough examination
I was satisfied that she was not a privateer, and had been properly
cleared by the U. S. consul, and I permitted her to proceed upon her
voyage to Kanagawa and San Francisco.
	Judge Cleary, late U. S. naval storekeeper, owns the Neva, amid was
a passenger on board of her; through his idle threats and boasting,
suspicions had been excited as to her honesty. There is no apprehension
now of her doing mischief.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	JAS. FINDLAY SCHENOK,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.


Report ~f Lieutenant Porter, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Pow.
hatan, relative to his search for the C. S. S. Sumter.
lIT. S. S. POWHATAN,
Off Cienfuegos, at Sea, August 19, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you that by order of the Flag-Offi-
cer Williamn Mervine, I am in search of the rebel steamer Sumter,
having learned her whereabouts from a prize of hers captured in one
	of my boats off Barataria.
	I left Pensacola on the night of the 14th instant, and after communi-
cating with five or six vessels oft~ Cape San Antonio, heard that as
late as the 7th of August the Sumter had sent another J)rize, bark
Joseph Maxwell, of New York, into Ciemifuegos, but that the authoritie

Page 69

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	69

would not let her remain there; that the crew put to sea in ner and
returned next day in an open boat, reporting that she had foundered
at sea. Most probably they burned her.
	The Sumter, sir, will not likely leave the Caribbean Sea. I beg
leave to make the following suggestions: That two swift steamers be
kept cruising off Cape San Antonio, in sight of each other; that one
steamer be sent to the Mona Passage and another between Cuba and
Haiti, one to cruise along the south side of Cuba, two to go down on the
Spanish Main, visiting all places where coalis to be found, and one to
cruise from St. Thomas through the islands, giving the officers certain
beats. The Sumter, if so looked for, must inevitably be taken; she will
otherwise commit an incalculable amount of damage. If opportunity
occurs I will take the liberty of writing more hilly on the subject. I
wrote this in hopes of sending it by a brig coming down.
	I communicated with an American brig from Trinidad this morning,
whose captain informs me that the bark Joseph Maxwell was picked np
outside aud taken into Cienfuegos again, having sold part of her cargo
into launches outside.
	I am going into Cienfuegos to get her charts and learn the Sumters
whereabouts when she captured the Joseph Maxwell.
	I have the honor to renjain, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
		DAVID D. PORTER,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	 Lieutenant, Commanding.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander Scott, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Keystone
State, of search Jbr C. S. S. Sumter.
U.	S. STEAMER KEYSTONE STATE
Havana, August 21, 1861.
	SIR: In my last communication, of the 7th instant, at St. Thomas, the
Department was notified of my intended cruise.
	I accordingly sailed on the 8th, passed around the north side of
Puerto Rico and through the Mona Passage, keeping the land in sight,
but saw nothing of the Sunmter or JejJ Davis.
	From thence the search was continued through the Windward Islands,
and an effort made to communicate at Martinique, but the weather
proved so unfavorable it was found impracticable, and I continued on
to Barbados, where it was supposed the Sumter might touch for coal,
but on communicating with the consul it appeared she had not been in
that vicinity. The course was then continued along the islands, and on
the morning of the 12th instant, off the island of Trinidad, a small
steamer was observed and supposed by all on board to be the Sumter,
bnt on nearing her she proved to be French. I then entered Port
Spain, where the Sumter coaled, landed eight or nine seamen, spent five
days, and sailed on the5th ultimo [instant]. It was my intention to take
the seamen on board, but it was ascertained that they had all shipped
on board American vessels. No information could be gained as to the
probable course taken by the Sumter, and 1 decided to continue through
the Leeward Islands, running between them and the mainland to Cur-
a~ao, where it was snpposed she might have returned to coal and inter-
cept the California steamer of the 15th from Aspinwall. It was also
my intention to take a small supply of coal at Cura~ao, but on arriving
off the port it was ascertained from the pilot that there was no coal to
be had and no news of the Sumter. The authorities, I was pleased t

Page 70

70	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

learn from the pilot, have decided that no urivateer shall again enter
the harbor.
	From Cura~ao a northwest course was pursued, crossing the track
of the Ca1ifornia~steamers, passing on the south side of Cuba and
thence to this port. The Sumter, I think, has gone east, probably in the
vicinity of Pernambuco, to intercept homeward-bound East India and
California vessels. It is much regretted, after so long and thorough
search, that the desired object was not attained, but I hope the course
pursued will meet the approbation of the Department.
	I deem it my duty, before closing this report, to call the attention of
the Department to the very hurried and imperfect fitting out of this
ship. The principal sails, foresail, and foretopsail are so much worn
and decayed that in case of necessity they could not be relied on; sev-
eral of our buckets for the water wheels have been injured by bad
weather, and there is not a spare one on board to replace them; the
galley funnel has been eight years in the ship and is entirely burned out,
and must be renewed before leaving this port. The boilers and head
of steam drum are unprotected, and a single shot well directed would
not only render thi~ ship an easy prey to the enemy but prove fatal to
a large portion of the crew. It is proper here to state that the order
from the Department to sail when the ship was ready was received
at the magazine after the powder and shell were on board, and to
have returned to the navy yard would have caused several days delay
and defeated the wishes of the Department. The ship to this day has
been thirty days under steam. She has run by log 5,160 miles, and
consumed 429 tons of coal, making an average of 14 tons per day, and
during the time the fires have ouly been drawn twice. I am happy to
say, notwithstanding the intense heat and continnous rains experi-
enced during our cruise, the officers and crew have enjoyed good health.
I beg leave to suggest, if the Department contemplates keeping steam-
ers cruising about the islands, that a supply of hard coal be sent to
Kingston and St. Thonias, as soft only caii be had, generally of an
inferior quality, not adapted to our steamers, and at exorbitant rates,
from $10.50 to ~l1.50 per ton. It is found impracticable to have the
required work done here without considerable detention, and as the
yellow fever is prevailing to a considerable extent, I shall, after taking
in water, go immediately to Key West.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
G.	II. SCOTT, Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Flag- Officer Sands, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. Brazil
Squadron, of arrival at Boston, ]Ilass.
U.	S. FRIGATE CONGRESS,
Boston, August 22, 1861.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report to you the arrival of the Congress at
this port, per your order of 9th April last, after a passage from the
River La [Rio de la] Plata of sixty-two days. All well.
	*	*	*	*	* *	*

	I have the honor to be, sir, most respectfully, your obedient servant,
		    JOSHUA II. SANDS,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Flag- Officer, Brazil Squadron.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 71

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	71

Report of Flag- Qfflcer Montgomery, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific
Squadron, of the inadequacy of the force for the protection of American
commerce on the Pacific coast.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Bay of Panama, August 23, 1861.
	SIR:	I have the honor respectftilly to state to the Department that
should privateers make their appearance in the Pacific Ocean, my very
limited force of four steamers and two sailing ships will prove wholly
inadequate for the protection of our commerce with the numerous ports
along this coast, extending from Talcahuano to San Francisco, a dis-
tance of 7,000 miles. The Gyane and St. Marys might render very
effectual service in the fresh winds prevailing along the coasts of Chile
and Peru, while they are almost useless, for purposes of protection,
between the equator and the Gulf of California, embracing a line of
more than 3,000 miles of coast.
	The sloop St. Marys is still detained undergoing repairs at San
Francisco, and the steamer Saranac (one of my most active steamers)
is en route to that port for repairs, redncing my present effective force
to three steamers and one sailing sloop, distributed as follows, viz:
Lancaster at Panama; Narragansett, coast of Mexico, from Acapulco
to Manzanillo, and the Wyoming and Cyane on the coast of Lower Cal
ifornia, mainly for the protection of our mail steamers between San
Francisco and this port. From this statement of the disposition of my
forces the Department will readily perceive the want of at least
four additional steamers on this station to watch over long hues of
coast at present unprotected. Four of the prol)eller gunboats now
building will answer admirably for the service required, and I would
earnestly request the supply of this additional force at the earliest con-
venicuce of the Department.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

	I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	J. B. MONTGOMERY,
Flag- Officer, Commanding Pacific Squadron.

Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.




Report of Lieutenant Porter, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Pow-
hatan, relative to coal.

U.	S. S. POWITATAN,
Jamaica, August 23, 1861.
	SIR:	The enclosed letter* from Mr. Richard Ilitchius, of Jamaica, will
explain itself. If our squadron continues to cruise it will be necessary
to send coal to this place for them. There is an indisposition on the
part of the Government to furnish us with coal, and there is none for
sale except at most exorbitant prices. Mr. Hutchins has the best-
arranged yard for coaling and stowing the coal, and it would be greatly
to the advantage of [the] Government to keep on hand here 1,500 or
2,000 tons and accept his terms (which are reas9nable) for putting the
Omitted as immaterial

Page 72

72	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

coal on board. Without some arrangement of this kind our steamers
can not cruise in these waters.
I have the honor to remain, very respectfully,
	DAvID D. PORTER,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Lieutenant, Commanding.
Secretary of the Navy.



Letter from president of the Pacific Miail Steamship Company to Secretary
o.t the Navy, representing the need of a United States steamer at Aspin-
wall for the protection of California steamers.

PACIFIC MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY,
New York, August 24, 1861.
	SIR:	I take the liberty to say that our advices from Panama report
that serious apprehensions are felt on the isthmus for the safety of the
California steamers to and from Aspinwall. The only United States
n)alI-of-war at Aspinwall is brig Baimbridge, which vessel, in those calm
latitudes, can not prove any great protection against a steam privateer.
Nothing has been seen of the U. S. S. Keystone State on the route
between New York and Aspinwall by our steamers, while the C. S. S.
Sumter and Echo have been heard of in those waters.
	My object is to call your attention to the necessity of having a United
States steamer off the port of Aspinwall, as I fear the brig Bainbridge
would be wholly inefficient for our protection in that neighborhood.
I am, sir, very respectfully
ALLAN MCLANE,
President.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commander Scott, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Keystone
State, relative to search for C. S. S. Sumter.

U.	S. S. KEYSTONE STATE,
Key West, August 25, 1861.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report my arrival here on the night of the
22d instant, and so soon as a supply of coal can be taken on board I
shall continue the search for the Sumter. Colnlnander Porter of the
Powhatan, I am pleased to learn, has also been sent by Flag-Officer
Mervine to search for her, and it is hoped something definite will soon
be ascertained regarding her.
	I mentioned in my last communication many defects regarding the
efficiency of this ship, and hope when the exigencies of the service will
permit that the Department will authorize her return to the United
States for the necessary repairs.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
G.H. SCOTT,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 73

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	73

Report of Commander Scott, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Keystone
State, relative to search for C. 5. 5. Sumter.

U.	S. S. KEYSTONE STATE,
Key West, August 26, 1861.
	SIR:	I learn the Sumter is now at Porto Bello without money, credit,
or coal; I shall therefore proceed with all dispatch to that point, touch-
ing at Alacran Reef, off Yucatan, where it is believed the Sumter has
sent prizes.
	I shall also touch at Aspinwall, that being the nearest point where
coal can be had. The order of the Department (lirects me, after obtain-
ing something definite of the Sumter, to report at Key West for the
Gulf Squadron. Flag-Officer Mervine, I learn from Lieutenant Com-
manding Trenchard, commands the Gulf Blockading Squadron and
Flag-Officer Pendergrast the Gulf Squadron. I am therefore in doubt
as to which squadron the Department desires me to report and ask to
be informed at Aspinwall.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	G. H. SCOTT,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Letter from Secretary of the Navy to Allan AicLane, esq., president
Pacific Mail Steamship Company, regarding measures for protection
of California steamers.
NAvY DEPARTMENT, August 27, 1861.
	Your letter of the 24th instant, relating to the safety of the Cali-
fornia steamer, has been received. You are informed in reply that the
steam ships of war Keystone State, Richmond, and Penguin are cruising
for the Smtmter and awaiting the arrival of the California steamer.
I am, respectfully,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	ALLAN MCLANE, New York.	~Secretary of the Navy.



Instructions from Secretary of the Navy to Commander Brasher, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. brig BaTh bridge, relative to convoying mail
steamers.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, August 28,1861.
	SIR:	You are authorized to convoy any of the mail steamers bound
from Aspinwall to New York with treasure some 50 or 60 miles from
the former port, provided the commanders of those vessels require of
you such service. After the performance of this duty you will imme-
diately return to your anchorage off Aspinwall.
I am, respectfiuly, your obedient servant,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commander T. M. BRASHER,	[Secretary of the Navy.]
Commanding CL S. Brig Bainbridge, Aspinwall, New Granada

Page 74

74	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Commander Carjpender, U. ~. Navy, commanding U. ~. store-
ship Falmouth, relative to safe shipment of arms from California, with
enclosures on the same subject.

U.	S. STORESHIP FALMOUTH,
Aspinwall, August 28, 1861.
	SIR:	The accompanying letters explain themselves. Captain Tin-
kiepaugh, at the suggestion of Commander Brasher, agreed to take
the Bainbridges 12-pounder brass howitzer with shell ammunition
on board, but went to sea without it. The hope is that the Northern
Light will go through safely; but if she should meet with any acci-
dent to her machinery and be caught in that predicament by the rebel
cruisers, she will wish she had heeded some of our suggestions.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
E.	W. CARPENDER,
Reserved Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.

[Enclosure No. 1.]


HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENT OF THE PACIFIC,
San Francisco, August 8, 1861.
	SIR:	Captain Wallen with his company leaves in the Sonora to-mor-
row in charge of 30,000 stand of arms, which have been ordered to be
sent from this Department to New York immediately. As these arms
would be a double loss to the Government if they should be captured,
I would respectfully and earnestly ask your cooperation in this affair.
	Although it is highly important that no time should be lost in the
transmission of these arms, it is still more important that they should
go safely. I am not sure that in the absence of orders you may not
think it advisable to send them in a Government ship or immediately
under convoy. The security of these arms is so vitally important
that I am confident the Government will approve of any measures you
may think proper to take to insure it.
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant,
E.	V. SUMNER,
Brigadier-General, U. S. A., Commanding.
Captain CARPENDER,
U.	S. Naval Commander, Aspinwall, New Granada.

[Enclosure No. 2.]


U.	S. STORESHIP FALMOUTH,
Aspinwall, New Granada, August 26, 1861.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the 8th instant, and of entering heartily and cordially into all your
views in relation to the precious charge on board the Northern Light. I
have addressed the accompanying letter to Captain Tinklepaugh for
his serious consideration.
	There is no Government vessel in which the arms could be trans-
ported to the United States, and if there were it would depend upon the
pleasure of the officer commanding her whether he would ship them in
her, as my authority is limited to the command of this ship. I await
the answer of Captain Tinklepaugh, aud will communicate it to Cap

Page 75

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	75

tam Wallen, in order that you may correctly understand the state of
things at the last moment.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
E.	W. CARPENPER,
ti~eserved Commander.
	J3rigadier-Geueral E. V. SUMNER
Commanding Department of th~ Pacific, ASIan Francisco, Cal.

[Enclosure No. 3.]


U.	S. STORESHIP FALMOUTH,
Aspinwall, Angust 26, 1861.
	SIR:	The immense importance of the interests involved will justify
me iu addressing this letter to you. You have seen the letter of Gen-
eral Sumner to me urging me by every consideration of duty and patriot-
isin to insure, as far as was 1)OsSible in my power, the safe conveyance
of the 30,000 arms on board your ship to the United States.
	The only suggestions I could make were, first, that you should take
the Bainbridgc in tow, and thus be protected by her guns; but Colonel
Totten and yourself thought that this would be attended with great
delay and inconvenience to your vessel, causing great uneasiness at
home, and perhaps obliging you to stop ou the way for coal, in all of
which J concurred. Next, that you should better be able to work your
guns from the stern by raising a platform above the steering gear; and
last, that part of the armament and crew of the Bainbridge. with her
only lieutenant, should be placed oim board of your ship. T1~e more I
think of this last suggestion the more desirous am I that it should meet
your approbation.
	Commander Brasher stands ready to make any sacrifice of mere con-
venience and any abridgment of his armament that may be thought
conducive to the public interests; and, for myself, in urging upon you
the adoption of this measure, I fully assume all the responsibility of my
position, and though powerless to make my will heeded, can not refrain
from expressing the opinion that, as a precautionary measure, the plan
proposed by me will have the sanction of the Government, and be duly
and properly appreciated and commended by the patriotic individual
in whose service you are employed.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
E.	W. CARPENDER,
Reserved Commander.
Captain TINKLEPAUGH,

#S~teamship Northern Light.

[Enclosure No. 4.]


STEAMSHIP NORTHERN LIGHT,

AspinwaU, August 26, 1861.
	SIR:	Your communication of this date in regard to the p~oper meas-
ures to be taken to insure the safety of the Government property on
board of this ship has been received. In this you agree with my objec-
tions to taking the Bainbridge in tow. As regards her armament, I
think it entirely too heavy for the upper deck of this ship, which is the
only one on which it can be used, and with my present armament I do
not think the officer and men could be of any service. It is undoubt-
edly of the first importance that the property should reach the Unite

Page 76

76	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

St~ites ill safety, but I do not see that I can do anything further at
present to insure its transmission.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
E.	L. TINKLEPAUGH,
Captain S. S. Northern Light.
	Commander E. W. CARPENDER,
U.	S. Storeship Ealmouth.

[Enclosure No. 5.]

U.	S. STORESHIP FALMOTTTH,
Asjpinwali, August 26, 1861.
	SIR:	I have your letter in answer to mine, and I now suggest that
you tow the Bainbridge out to the trade wind, and, taking the route of
Cape San Antonio, have her accompany you until you are entirely past
all danger from the rebel cruisers.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
E.	W. CARPENDER,
Reserved Commander.
Captain TINKLEPAUGH,
Commanding Steamer Northern Light.




Order of Flag- Officer Montgomery, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific
Squadron, to Captain Ritchie, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Sara-
nac, to cruise for the protection of California steamers.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Bay of Panama, August 29, 1861.
	SIR:	When requisite repairs shall have been effected on the Saranac,
nudef your command, you will fill up with provisions, water, and coal,
and present requisitions for the approval of the commandant at Mare
Island for powder and shell to make up your deficiency (for practice),
and the moment you are ready for sea proceed with the Saranac to
Cape San Lucas, and cruising in that vicinity you will afford all neces-
sary protection to our mail steamers in their transit to and from San
Francisco, and watch over the general interests of our commerce with
ports in the Gulf of California.
	It is supposed that privateers may be fitted out under commissions
issued by the assumed authorities of seceded States, with a view to
capturing mail steamers with treasure and our merchant vessels in the
Pacific. You will therefore keep a vigilant lookout for vessels of that
description and use your utmost efforts to capture any that you may
fall in with or hear of having approached the line of coast placed under
your special protection. Should you hear of, or have sufficient reason
to suspect, any hostile movements by secessionists of our country upon
Lower California, with a view to invasion avid the conquest of that
territory, it will be your duty promptly to employ the means at your
disposal in preventing the consummation of such designs, giving the
earliest intimation thereof to Brigadier-General Stunner at San Fran-
cisco, who is instructed by the War Department to cooperate with the
naval force in the Pacific in effecting that object

Page 77

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	77

	You will, sir, communicate all information having reference to the
public interests and those of citizens of the United States and advise
me by every mail of your proceedings. Acapulco being the nearest
point where coal cau be obtained, in order to avoid too frequent inter-
ruptions in the prosecution of duties assigned you it is important that
you observe the strictest economy in the use of your coal by keeping
the Saranac under sail at all times when, in your judgment, a due
regard to the interests committed to your care will permit you to do so.
	The enclosed order you will please hand to Commander Middleton
upon falling in with the St. Marys, off Cape San Lucas.
I am, sir, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Flag- Officer, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Captain ROBERT RITCHIE,

Commanding U. S. S. Saranac, San Francisco, Cal.

[Enclosure.]


U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Bay of Panama, August 29, 1861.
	Sin: Upon the arrival of the Saranac, Captain Robert Ritchie
(appointed for your relief), off Cape San Lucas, you will proceed with
the sloop St. Marys, under your command, to the coast of Upper Cali-
fornia, and cruise between the port of San Francisco and the island of
San Niguel, off Santa Barbara, for the object of giving protection to
our mail steamers in their transit to and from San Francisco, and also
to secure merchant vessels of the United States from liability to cap-
ture by privateers of our seceded States.
	You will be vigilant in observing the movements of all vessels of a
suspicious or doubtful character, and use your utmost efforts to effect
the capture of Southern privateers or other vessels under the seces-
sion flag, if fallen in with. It is desirable, sir, that you sight the mail
steamers on every trip while passing your position on the coast, and
please keep me advised by mail of your proceedings. Letters for your
ship will be sent to San Francisco.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Flag- Officer, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Commander EDWARD MIDDLETON,
Commanding U S Sloop St Marys,
Off Cape San Lucas, Lower California.




Letter from Secretary of the Navy to president Panama Railroad Com-
pany, regarding measures fir protection of tialifornia steamers.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, August 29, 1861.
	GENTLEMEN: Your letter of the 24th instant has been received.
The Department has not overlooked the subject referred to in your let-
ter, and sometime since dispatched steamers to visit the passages
between the Atlantic and the Caribbean Sea, and to afford protection
1o the California steamers. It has now, as you will see by the enclose

Page 78

78	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

copy of a telegram to Allan MeLane, esq., and of the instructions to
Commander T. M. Brasher, directed the brigs Perry and Bainbridge to
convoy those steamers through the passage.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
D.	HOADLEY, ESQ.,
President Panama R. R. Co., and others, New York.

[Enc1osure~Te1egra1I1.1

NAVY DRPART1wENT, August 28, 1861.

	For the present the Department proposes to place the heavily armed
brig Perry to cruise constantly through the Mariguana Passage. She
might be towed through both ways by the steamers.
GIDEON WELLES,
~Secretary of the Navy.]
ALLAN MOLANE,
88 Wall Street, New York.



Report of Lieutenant Porter, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Pow-
hatan, relative to search for C. S. S. Sumter, and enclosing correspond-
ence with the governor of Cura9ao.
U.	S. S. POWHATAN,
Cura~ao, August 80, 1861.
	Sin:	I arrived at this port yesterday in search of the Sumter, and
hear nothing positive about her. There is a report here that she cap-
tured a coal vessel about ten days ago bound to this place, the only cap-
ture we hear of since she captured the Joseph Maxwell, which we found
in Cienfuegos under the charge of the Spanish authorities. The gover-
nor of this place has taken so strange a view of the Sumter case (receiv-
ing her as a vessel of war) that I deemed it my duty to protest against
such acknowledgment, which communication I have the honor to enclose
you. The Sumter was so well treated here that she is coming again,
though the governor has promised not to admit her or give her any
assistance. I heard yesterday that she was stranded in the harbor of
Trinidad, where I am going to see if the report is true. She is still on
this coast, I am sure, and will finally return to Cienfuegos, not know-
ing that her prizes have been given up and anticipating finding money
for the sale of them in the hands of her prize agent, with whom they
were left. If a fast steamer was sent at once to Cienfuegos down the
south side of Cuba, with orders to lie at the mouth of the harbor with
steam up, she would catch the Sumter, for she will be short of coal when
she gets there. She has increased her crew to 140 men and carries the
same armament, four light 32-pounders and one 64-pounder pivot abaft
the foremast. The appearance of this ship here has had a most excel-
lent effect in damaging the reputation of these quasi-rebel ships of war.
I only regret that her condition will require her to go home so soon. 11
have had her bottom examined here by divers. Part of her false keel
is knocked off, her forefoot gone, and 500 sheets of copper off, damage
sustained by running ashore in the China seas. I sail day after to-inor-
row to pursue my search, hoping to hear something of the Sumter in
the meantime

Page 79

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
79
	The Keystone State passed this port fourteen days since. I have
been informed that the Sumter took coal enough in Trinidad to go to
Pernambuco, in Brazil; if she has gone there she will be able to obtain
plenty of coal on the way, at Pasa [Par~fl and other places, and unless
followed up will do an immense amount of damage. In case it is
intended to send vessels in that direction in search of the Sumter, the
following places on the route will supply coal: St. Thomas, Antigna,
Guadeloupe, Martinique, St. Lucia, St. Yincent, Grenada, Trinidad,
Barbados, Pernanibuco, or any port in Brazil. I am of opinion that
the Sumter is still in the Caribbean Sea.
	I have the honor to remain, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	DAVIn ID. PORTER,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Lieutenant, Commanding.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

LEnclosures.l

U.	S. S. POWIJATAN,
Cura9ao, August 30, 1861.
	EXCELLENCY: In the pleasant interview which I had with you this
morning I could not help being surprised at the decision your Excellency
had made in relation to the armed vessels belonging to the so called
Confederate States of the South, namely, that vessels of war, so called,
would be permitted to enter here a
once, but not a second time. , nd receive supplies of coal, etc.,
It was by this decision the armed steamer Sumter, claiming to be a
ship of war, entered here and obtained supplies of coal, by which she
alone was enabled to inflict serious damage on the commerce of the
United States. If this practice is admitted by the colonies of all the
European powers in these seas, it is equivalent to having those powers
aiding these quasi men-of-war, which, if they existed in any numbers,
would soon put a stop to the United States commerce. I find that
this practice prevails in the West India ports of other nations besides
your own; and that the rebels who are in arms against the lawful Gov-
ernuient of the United States are by this act admitted to all the rights
of a belligerent power. This does not seem to me to be in accordance
with the principles of amity which are due to the United States from
nations with whom we have had long-standing treaties, and with whom
we have always had an honorable representation, while all recognition
has beeii denied to the corn ruissioners of the so-called Confederate
States by every European power. I am aware that your excellency
has received instructions not to admit any privateers or their prizes to
enter your ports, and that the Sumter has been admitted on the ground
that she was a Vessel of war. Your excellency must admit that until
the so-called Confederate States are acknowledged by some of the
European governments, and uiitil they prove themselves capable of
defeating the efforts of the U. S. Government to bring them back to
their allegiance, that they must be considered as part of the States com-
prising the Union, and our Constitution foi-bids any State fitting out
letters of marque, men-of-war, or equiping armies; and all vessels
fitting out contrary to the wording of the Constitution do so illegally,
arid are good prizes to any nation that may capture theni.
	It is not likely that your Excellency will ever be troubled with any
more steamers belonging to the so-called Confederate States, for by this
time the Government of the United States are in a position to blockad

Page 80

80	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

every harbor or outlet from those States; but if such a thing should
occur, an(l a vessel calling herself a ship of war should come here I do
not see how the United States could help construing it as an unfriendly
act on the part of your Government if such vessels should receive
facilities here for pursuing their maraudings, and thus be enabled to
capture the vessels belonging to the United States.
	Not wishing to dictate to your Excellency what your duty should be
nuder the circumstances until you receive further instructions on the
snbject, it strikes inc that the Dutch Government, not having alluded
to vessels of war in your instructions, ignored such a classification of
vessels altogether, and can only recognize them as privateers under
any circumstances whatever. Under the state of the case it appears
to inc that friendly acts of your Government are more due to the United
States than to a rebellious branch of it, and that you at least have dis-
cretionary power enough left you to prevent a course of things which
can not help meeting with the strongest protest of the U. S. Govern-
inent. A refusal to admit those privateers, or l)irates, or quasi ships of
war, into your ports puts an end at once to depredations on our com-
merce, and I ai. sure that such a course will meet the approbation of
your home Government and cement the bonds of friendship which have
hitherto existed between the two countries. I deem it my duty to pro-
test to your Excellency against the acknowledgment on your part of
vessels claiming to be ships of war of the so-called Confederate States,
arid 1 hope that your excellency will on due consideration perceive the
weight of my objection to the decision you have made, and rectify it so
far that the commerce of the United States will not suffer through any
tolerance of yours until you receive specific instructions from your Gov-
ment, which you told me you expect shortly.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
DAVID D. PORTER,
Commander U. S. &#38; Powhatan.
	His Excellency J. D. CROL,
Governor of CuraQao.


CURAQkO, August 31, 1861.
	SIR:	Giving myself the honor to reply to your communication of the
30th instant, I beg leave to state that in the interview I had the pleas-
ure of having with you in the morning ot yesterday, 1 mentioned to you
that whereas the Netherlands Government was desirous to observe a
strict neutrality during the existing disturbances in the United States
of America, warnings and instructions had been issued accordingly by
the said Government, containing among others that no privateers,
under whatever colors, or provided with whatsoever commissions or let-
ters de marque, shall be admitted in the ports or roadsteads of the
Netherlands dominion 5.~~
	I further stated to you as my opinion, alluding to the case of the Sum-
ter, that it would not be consistent with the principle of neutrality
adopted by the Netherlands Government to allow vessels of war of the
Confederate States, cruising in these waters, repeatedly to visit this port
for the purpose of supplying themselves with provisions, coal, etc., and so
to make this place the starting point of their operations; consequently,
acting upon these considerations, I would object to the Confederate
States man-of-war steamer Sumter again being admitted into this port
on the event ishe made her appearance a second time

Page 81

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	81

	At the same time I beg to reiterate what I had the honor of meniion-
ing to you verbally, in yesterdays interview, that in submitting the
case of the Sumter to the decision of the supreme Government, I reqnested
at the same time further instructions on the subject, and how to act in
future on similar occasions.
	In the meantime I consider myself bound, in expectation of those
instructions, strictly to adhere to the existing regulations to the effect
that dnring thc existing disturbances in the United States of America,
no privateers, under whatever colors, and provided with whatsoever
commissions or letter de marqne, with or without prizes, maybe admitted
into this port unless in case of distress.
I have the honor to remain respectfully,
J.	D. CROL,
The Governor of Curct~ao Dependencies.

COMMANDER U. S. MAN-OF-WAR STEAMER POWHATAN,
In this Harbor.

U.	S. S. POWHATAN,
Gura9ao, August 31, 1861.
	EXCELLENCY: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your
communication of the 31st August, 1861, and I hope you will pardon
my return to the subject of my first communication to yoa. All that
yonr Excellency states in your letter of this date I fully nnderstood
when I had the pleasure of an interview with you yesterday, but I
endeavored to draw your attentiou to the fact that all vessels fitted
out by the so-called Confederate States of North America can only be
considered as privateers by European nations (and by our own laws
they are pirates), unless any nation has recognized the independence
of said States. Your intentions with regard to privateers were made
very plain to me, and would be perfectly satisfactory to the U. S.
Government, but coupled with your explanation was a determination
expressed by your excellency to admit once and supply with coal
any other steamer besides the Sumter claiming to be a man-of.war of
the so-called Confederate States. Your Excellency~s Government in
Holland has not recognized the right of the rebellious States of INorth
America to lit out men-of-war, or they would have issued instructions at
the same time they laid down their rule of neutrality with regard to
privateers.
I feel quite confident that your Government, acting in that good faith
which has always characterized it, will decline recognizing the right of
our rebellious States to fit out ships of war; indeed they can not recog-
nize that right unless they consider the Government of the United
States broken asunder, and set at naught all our rights as a govern-
ment and a nation. I beg leave to say to your Excellency that the
so-called Confederate States have but two vessels they style men-of-
war vessels, the Sumter and a similar omie called the Mckae, and it is
in case that tIme latter vessel should get to sea(which is not likely), that
I would request your Excellency to refuse her admittance into your
ports or roadsteads, or allow her to obtain supplies of coal and other
articles that will enable her to commit depredations on the commerce
of the United States; for if she obtains coal here only once, as did the
Sumter, it will enable her to do a deal of harm, while without those
supplies she would be harmless, and likely soon fall into the hands of
the Government whose laws she would have set at defiance. It would
afford me great pleasure to communicate to my Government your Excel-
123A

Page 82

82	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

lencys just and favorable answer to this, my proposition, convinced as
I am that it would be an evidence of the friendly feeling of the Dutch
Government and prevent complications at some future time; for I do
not think that the U. S. Government can ever admit the recognition of a
so-called Confederate man-of-war vessel by a foreign government.
While those States are considered as part of the American Union, it is
very natural to suppose that an unfriendly act of this kind would
impair the friendly feelings existing between the two nations, which
is much to be deprecated.
	I have the honor to remain, your Excellencys obedient servant,
DAVID D. PORTER,
Commander U. S. S. Powhatan.
His Excellency J. D. CROL,
Governor of Cura9ao and Dependencies.


CuRA~Ao, September 1, 1861.
	SIR:	Having the honor to reply to your communication of yesterday~s
date, received this morning, I can only express my sincere regret in not
having succeeded to convince you that in the face of positive instruc-
tions emanated from the supreme Government with regard to the
strict neutrality to be observed during the existing disturbances in the
United States of America, I can not act otherwise than conformably
to these directions, which, moreover, have publicly ecu notified, not
considering myself qualified either to alter or to modify them.
	As I already had the honor to communicate to you, having lost no
time in submitting the case of the Sumter to the decision of niy Gov-
ernment, requesting at the same time to be furnished with further
instructions on the subject and how to act in future on similar occa-
sions, I feel persuaded it will be acknowledged as an evidence of my
anxiety to prevent any complication between the respective Goverit-
ments and of my ardent desire not in the least to impair, but on the
contrary to consolidate, the friendly feelings and good understanding
betw&#38; eu the two nations.
I have the honor to remain, respectfully, sii-, your obedient servant,
J.	D. CROL,
Governor oJ Cura~ao and Dependencies.
His Honor DAVID D. PORTER,
Commander of the U. S S. Powhatan, Cura9ao Harbor.



Instructions from Assistant Secretary of the Navy to Commander Palmer
U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Iroquois, relative to search for C. S. S.
Sumter.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, September 1,1861.
	SIR:	You will prepare your vessel for sea with all dispatch and pro-
ceed to the West Indies in pursuit of the pirate steamers Sumter and
]IlicRae. The Department can not give you definite instructions with
regald to these vessels but must intrust the puisuit to your good judg-
ment after arriving there, where you will no doubt obtain later inform a-
tion as to their movements. The Sumter has been twice to Cienfuegos,
once to Santiago, on the coast end of Cuba, once to St. Thomas, once
to Cura~ao, and was last heard of at Ponce, Porto [Puerto] Rico. The
MeRae has only been heard of as having escaped from New Orleans

Page 83

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	83

It is desirable that you should return to Hampton Roads by the 5th of
October unless you are then on the track of some ot these pirates.
	The California gold steamers pass through the Mariguana Passage,
and between Navassa and the coast of Cuba.
	I enclose herewith a portion of the last report received by the Depart-
ment from Commander Scott, of the Keystone State, relating to his
search for the Sumter, together with an extract of a letter from Flag-
Officer Mervine on the same subject.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
G. V. Fox,
Assistant Secretary.
Commander JAMES S. PALMER,
Commanding U. S. S. Sloop Iroquois, Hampton Roads.



Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Palmer, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Iroquois, forwarding information of C. S. S.
Sumter.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, September 2, 18G1.
	Sin:	The following is an extract from a letter just received from
Commander D. D. Porter, commanding the steamship Powhatan, off the
Southwest Pass of the Mississippi, and may be useful to you in your
search for the Sumter:
	*	* I know as well as it is possible to surmise where the rendezvous of
Semmes will be. His plan is to sink, burn, and destroy all that is not very valua-
ble, and no pirate that ever swam the ocean had such an opportunity for doing dam-
age, for he can do it with impunity. Let the Department fit out some fast steamers
with rifle guns and sen4 one to the bay of Samana at the east end of Haiti. He will
be found there or Ill lose my head. There are hiding holes there known to Semmes,
where a hundred prizes might lie concealed, There is also a place in the same
island,. Ocoa Bay, well known to Semmes (I was there with him), where a thousand
vessels might lie concealed and no one know of it. There are places around the
Isle of Pines, where the devil himself would not find vessels unless he knew the
locality. I have been all throngh them and know them well; so does Semmes. If
he gets hard pushed he can find shelter among the reels on the Mosquito Banks. No
one would think of following him there. There is no reason why he can not get into
New Orleans at any time. Southeast Pass is open with 10 feet of water at low tide.
The Sumter only draws 12 feet light, aud it is easy enough to drag her through the
mud. Two tugboats lie in the passes all the time ready for that emergency, and
we dont know what goes in or out at night.

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commander J. ~. PALMER,	[Secretary of the Navy.]
U.	S. Steam Sloop Iroquois, flampton Roads.



Report of Commander Palmer, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Iro-
quois, acknowledging orders.

U.	S. S. IROQUOIS,
Hampton Roads, September 8, 1861.
	SIR:	I am just in receipt of your letter of the 1st of September (the
mail seems to have been interrupted for a day). I shall have all m

Page 84

84	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

stores on board by the day after to-morrow and proceed to the West
Indies, agreeably to your instructions. I deem it proper to state, how-
ever, that there is at this moment only the guilboat Flag besides myself
at this anchorage. The Savannah, Seminole, and Corwin (which is
good for nothing) are at Newport News. General Wool urges me not
to move until more force arrives; Captain Hull also wishes me to remain.
I shall be ready, however, on the day after to-morrow, as I have said
above and unless telegraphed to remain until some other vessels arrive,
[shall] proceed at once to execute the orders of the Department.
XTery respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAS. S. PALMER,
Gommander and Senior Officer Present.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. (J.




Order from Assistant Secretary of the Navy to Captain Glynn, U. S. Navy
commanding U. S. S. Macedonian, to cruise on South American coast
and in the West Indies.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, September 4, 1861.
	SIR:	Your letter of the 22d ultiino, written at Key West, reporting
the Macedonian under way for Aspiuwall, has been received. The
Department desires the Macedonian to remain on the West India Sta-
tion as long as she can with safety to the health of her officers and
crew. The moment fever shall appear on board of such type and prev-
alence as to render it advisable to seek a northern climate, you will
proceed with her to Philadelphia. The Macedonian will cruise along
the South American coast and through the Leeward and Windward
islands and the Mona Passage.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
G.	V. Fox,
Acting Secretary.
Captain JAMES GLYNN,
Commanding U. S. S. ]lfacedonian, Aspinwall.




Report of Commander Brasher, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. brig Bain-
bridge, of shipment of arms from California, and other matters.

U.	S. BRIG BAINERIDGE,
AspinwaU, New Granada, September 4, 1861.
	SIR:	Since my communication to the Department by last steamer,
dated August 24, 30,000 stand of arms from California were shipped
under the circumstances of the within letter, ~ and as further referred
to by Commander Carpender of the Falmouth. Of the enemys vessels
in the Caribbean I have various statements. From one it would seem
that a steamer has been successively at Cura9ao, Trinidad, and latterly
off La Guayra, represented as bearing long guns and called the Sumter.
*Not found

Page 85

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	85

	I hear of no definite designs of the enemy, nor of the intentions of
the Mosquera party at Bogota to assail this point. It is minored (on
the 3d) that the vessel above referred to was, or is, at Porto Bello.
Upon inqniry, the best and fullest I can make, I do not find any founda-
tion for the rumor. 1 expect soon to hear from Porto Bello by means
as reliable as the times afford.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, T. M. BRASHER,


Hon. GIDEON WELLES, Commanding U. S. Brig Bainbridge.
Secretary of the Navy.





Letter from Messrs. $pofford, Tileston &#38; Co. to the Secretary of the Navy,
relative to the appointment of acting masters to command the Havana
steamships.
29 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, September 5, 1861.
	Sin: We have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your notes of
24th and 27th ultimo in relation to the officers and men to be placed on
board our Havana steamships. We accept the offer made in your letter
of 27th August last. We think that the suggestion made by Com-
modore Breese on this subject a good one, viz, the captains of the
steamers in question to be appointed by the Secretary of the Navy
acting masters, U. S. Navy, instead of al)pointing other acting masters
to the vessels. This we highly approve of as it is of the utmost con-
sequence to good order and discipline to have each steamer and all the
men thereon under the control of one commander.
	In case you should also approve of this plan we give you below the
names of each captain. These officers have been in our employ over
fifteen years, are thorough navigators and seamen, and perfectly
acquainted with our coast. Our next steamship outward will be the
Marion, to leave about the 10th or 12th instant. Captain of steamer
Columbia, Richard Adams; captain of steamer Marion, James I). Phil-
lips; both of New York.
Respectfully, your obedient servants,
	lion. GIDEON WELLES,	SPOFFOnD, TILESTON &#38; Co.
Secretary of Navy, Washington.

[Endorsement.]


	Direct Commodore Breese to put on board the number of men agreed
upon as in Departments letter.
	tG. V. Fox.]

[Second endorsement.J


Four ordinary seamen, 4 seamen 1
4 landsmeu.	, quarter gunner, 1 gunners mate,

[Third endorsement.1


	Appoint them acting masters without pay

Page 86

86	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Flag- Officer Montgomery, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific
AS~quadron, of injuries to U. S. S. Wyoming by grounding, transmitting
report of commanding officer.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Bay of Panama, September 6, 1861.
	SIR: For the information of the Department I enclose herewith a
copy of a letter received from Lieutenant F. K. Murray, while tempo-
rarily in command of the steamer Wyoming, dated Monterey, Upper
California, August 18, 1861.
	Lieutenant Murray sailed from this port in the Wyoming in July last,
destined for service oft the port of San Francisco, under instructions
to call at La Paz (Lower California) with a view to enquiries in relation
to supposed designs of the secessionists upon that province, as indi-
cated in your letter of June 10, enclosing copies of communication from
Thomas Sprague, esq., late U. S. commercial agent at La Paz, addressed
to the Department of State, in reference to said designs against Lower
California. From Lieutenant Murrays letter it will be seen that our
citizens residing at La Paz were wholly ignorant, and seemed to have
no apprehension of any such movement on the part of secessionists.
	I greatly regret, sir, that the Wyoming should have been run upon a
coral reef in leaving the harbor of La Paz, causing injuries which will
necessarily require that vessel to be docked at San Francisco. As the
Wyoming was under pilotage at the time, it is not probable that any
censure can properly attach to Lieutenant Murray for this accident.
For the information of the Bureau of Construction, etc., a copy of
Lieutenant Murrays report will be duly forwarded to that bureau.
	Intelligence received from commanders of the squadron and other
reliable sources assure me of the preselit security of our commerce from
interruption along the coasts of Central America, Mexico, and the Cali-
foriiias. Privateers have neither been seen nor heard of and I have no
reason to believe that any are fitting, or likely to be fitted out, along
this line of coasts.
	Lieutei~ant Shirley, executive officer of the St. Marys, under date of
August 7, reports the desertion of Boatswain Robinson of that ship at
Mare Island on 22d of July last. Commander Middleton assumed the
command August 8. I therefore respectfully request that a boat-
swain may be sent to the St. Marys; also, a chaplain to supply the place
of Chaplain Lewis (detached) on board of this ship.
	I have great pleasure in reporting the general good health of our offi-
cers and crew, and those of the vessels of this squadron when last
heard from.
I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Flag Officer, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
[Ellclosure.]

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP WYOMING,
Monterey, Cal., August 18, 1861.
	SIR:	I respectfully report that we arrived here yesterday, having
encountered strong northwest winds on the coast. Our coal gave out,
and we anchored with but 2 tons on board. There is none to be
obtaiiied here, but I shall supply the ship with wood, and sail immedi-
ately for San Francisco

Page 87

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	87

	We arrived at La Paz on the 25th ultimo, and remained there five
days. Our Government has at present no consul or civil agent there.
From the Nmericans residing in the city I learned that nothing had
been heard of designs upon Lower California. I explored the bay and
the harbors ot the vicinity of La Paz, and found no suspicious vessels.
Leaving the harbor, while in charge of the Government pilot, the ship
was run on shore on coral rocks in a situation which would have placed
her in great peril had one of the gales iiot unusual at this season arisen.
Our efforts to get off, continued through the day and night, were unavail-
ing, and in the morning the schooner Adrianna, of San Francisco, for-
tunately passing, I chartered her at $100 per day to aid us, and carried
out, by her means, anchors and chains, and lightened the ship of
everything but the coal and guns. At the expiration of the third day
we succeeded in heaving the ship off. Part of her false keel floated to
the surface after she struck, and our divers report injury to the copper.
Beyond this she sustained no damage, the water being perfectly smooth.
I shall recommend, on my arrival at San Francisco, that she be docked.
The Adrianna carried passengers and was out of water and provisions.
I supplied them and towed her to Cape San Lucas.
	I touched at Magdalena Bay for water, and remained three days.
There is,J am convinced, no harbor on the coast more likely to be
resorted to than this by vessels having desigiis hostile to our commerce.
I explored it and found nothing suspicious.
	I shall forward a duplicate of this report, with copy of contract with
the master of the Adrianna, upon our arrival at San Francisco.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
F.	K. MURRAY,

Flag-Officer J. B. MONTGOMERY, Lieutenant, Commanding,
Commanding U. S. Pacific Squadron,
U.	S. Flagship Lancaster, Bay of Panama.



Letter from Midshipman Mahan, U. S. Navy, to Assistant Secretary of the
Navy, suggesting a plan for capture of C. S. S. Sumter.

U.	S. S. JAMES AnGER, September 9, iSGi.
	SIR: I hope you will overlook what may appear like youthful pre-
sumption in addressing you on the subject I wish to.
	The ravages of the pirate Sumter have reached a pitch that, if long
continued, will cast an undeserved stigma upon the Navy. Her speed,
on the cruising ground she has chosen, will always enable her to obtain
the twenty-four hours shelter granted by neutral powers, and thus a
chance of escape by night, which can only be prevented by surround-
ing her with a chain of vessels more numerous than our small Navy
and extended blockaded coast can at present allow us to devote to this
object.
	Can she not be decoyed nuder fire, or even boarded ~ A steamer
can not do this, for the smallness of the steam mercantile marine would
of itself render her liable to suspicion. I have thought that a sailing
vessel, as one of the lately confiscated rebel vessels, might be equipped
with a heavy pivot gun and a light house built over it, such as are often
seen in merchant 5h11)5, and which could not excite suspicion. Broad-
side guns requiring ports would be incompatible with the end in view

Page 88

88	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Mall the ship with a hundred men, more if necessary. Will there not
be a probability of the steamer approaching confidentlyif to leeward,
within a distance to render boarding practicable; if to windward, so as
possibly to be disabled or sunk with your heavy gull?
	Elaboration of detail would be misplaced here, and I shall not attempt
it.	I am aware that the disadvantages a sailing vessel labors under
are great, and my idea may appear rash or eveii harebrained. But sup-
pose it fail, what is lost ~ A useless ship, a midshipman, and a hundred
men. If it succeed, apart from the importance of the capture, look at
the prestige such an affair would give the service. Finally, if this is
so fortunate as to meet your approval and that of the honorable Secre-
tary, and you should not wish to risk a better man, I beg to offer myself
to lead the enterprise.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ALFRED T. MAHAN,
Midshipman, U. S. Navy.
	Captain G. V. Fox,
Assistant Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Flag-Officer Montgomery, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific
Squadron, of intended departure from Panama for Mexico.

lIT. S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Bay of Panama, September 13, 1861.
	Siu: In accordance with the requirement of the Department, .1 have
the honor to inform you that upon the relief of our present crew, upon
the arrival of the Gyane, Commander Bissell, at this port, I shall pro-
ceed with the Lancaster to the coasts of Mexico and California to look
out for our interests in that quarter.
	Affairs on the isthmus remain quiet, with every prospect of continued
tranquillity.
	I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfuliy, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Flag- Officer, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
lion. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Letter from Secretary of State to Secretary of the Navy, with enclosure
from U. S. consul, regarding C. S. S. Sumter and other vessels.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, September 13, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to transmit herewith, for your information, a
copy of a dispatch, received this morning from the U. S. consul at
Cura~ao, respecting the movements of the Sumter and of other vessels,
one of which is supposed to have been a privateer.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
WILLIAM II. SEWARD,
[Secretary of State.]
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy

Page 89

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	89

[Enclosure.]

U.	S. CONSULATE,
Cura9ao, August 26, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor [to inform] you that on the 15th instant the
U. S. S. Keystone State, G. II. Scott commander, passed before this
port bound to the westward. The pilot boarded her, and the com-
mander stated to him that being in a great hurry he could lose no
time in entering the port; he inquired from him about the Sumter, but
finding she was not here, proceeded immediately. She was last from
St. Thomas. I have no further information regarding the whereabouts
of the iS~umter; she was not seen nor reported since the 2d instant, and
I hope she is by this time iu the hands of our Government.
	The bark Venus arrived from New York ou the 19th instant, and
reports having been chased on or about the edge of the Gulf Stream
by a brig which he supposed to be a privateer. The captain says that
he was chased for three days, but his vessel being very fast she could
not conie up with him. Fearing privateers on the coast, the captain
has sold his vessel at this port and returns nnder the Dutch flag, and
I am of opinion that all regular vessels trading between this and New
York will do the same.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant.
MOSES JESURUN,
U.	S. Consul.
	Hon. W. H. SEWARD,
Secretary of State, Washington.



Report of Commander Brasher, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. brig Rain-
bridge, of affairs at Aspinwall, and rumors regarding C. S. S. Sumter.

U.	S. BRIG BAINBRIDO-E,
Aspinwall, New Granada, September 15, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your order of
Aub ust 28, directing convoy of the steamers out of port. Such offers, I
am happy to say, have always been made them. On the sailing of the
last steamer we accompanied her to sea, after which I ran to Porto
[Puerto] Bello and anchored, returning the next day to Aspinwall.
	Loose rumors had said a rebel vessel, the Sumter, was there. Not
finding her there, the local magistrate affirming that no such vessel
had been there, 1 must conclude that she had not; but the reconnoi-
tering officer, the first lieutenant, is of opiniou that she may have
been there. As a strategic point, that port and neighboring coast
should iuvite an enemy in wait to attack this point, or a California
steamer ou her departure from Aspinwall. It is considered by some
that such method would be more to an enemys interest than most auiy
other.
	Jam loosely informed that it may be the design of quasi passengers to
embark in the steamer with intent to capture her by some sudden
strategy prearranged. I am not able to find any confirmation at all
myself of any such combination. For my own part I know that such an
idea has always been in view and acted on by the officers of the steam-
ships with every care, as far as their own scrutiny extends over the
passengers. I deem it my duty to make the above representation,
at the same time to state that for my own part I do not judge the ris

Page 90

90	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

of such an occurrence to be at all greater or in any way different at
present than hitherto.
	Comm ander Carpen der, of the Palm outh, storeship, lies quite sick of
a repeated attack of the country fever. That ship, with her supplies
and stores, is thus without any officer on duty, the two young clerks
being in no wise qualified to defend the ship in case of attack or adruin-
ister the police of the vessel and crew. Moreover, the season is approach-
ing when the experience of an able seaman should attend to her security
at her anchors. I presume our many enemies in this region dissemi-
nate (as they speak) their ideas of a wish to burn the Palmouth and
assault the brig when they may deem such trial expedient.
	Of the l)olitical changes going on in this country and their great
prejudice, perhaps entire loss of ternis to the railroad, 1 presume you
are thoroughly informed by the civil agents.
	Should Captaiti Carpender die, I will assume command of the Falmouth
myself aiid appoint the harbor master as acting master pro tempore.
	*	*	*	*

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
T.	M. BRASHER,
Commanding U. S. Brig Bainbridge.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commander Palmer, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Iroquois,
of cruise in search of C. S. S. Sumter.

U.	S. S. IROQUOIS,
Bridgetown, Barbados, West Indies, September 23, 1861.
	SIR: As an opportunity has just offered direct for the United States,
by the departure to-morrow of the U. S. S. Mystic, I think it well
to apprise the Government of the little news I have been able to gather
thus tar respecting the pirate steamer Sumter.
	I reached the Island of St. Thomas after a passage of six aud a half
days from Hampton Roads. here I found the Keystone State coaling,
and, as this port is the focus of all West Indian news, I learned of the
Sumters whereabouts as late as the 4th of September. On that day she
left ~urinam, saying that she would return to coal in a fortnight, but
of course this was a ruse. The Powhatan had left St. Thomas, as it
was said,for Surinam, several days before my arrival; she consequently
would be at that port at the time of the Sumters supposed return.
Commander Scott and myself then decided that he would leave for the
coast of Guiana, as he might be able to go up the river where the
Powhatan could not, whilst I took down the Caribbean group, looking
in at the ports of the different islands where coal was to be had, think-
ing the Sumter, driven from the mainland by the presence of these two
ships, might come over to replenish her coal among her friends, the
English. This she had done previously at Trinidad, where not only
coal was furnished her, but everything in the way of an outfit, even to
powder.
	Since leaving St. Thomas I have looked into Santa Cruz, St. Kitts,
Guadeloupe, Martinique, both at the ports of St. Pierre and Fort
Royal, communicating with the consuls, and arrived here this morning.
To-morrow I shall leave for Grenada and Trinidad; at the latter por

Page 91

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	91

I expect to meet the Keystone State, by which time she will have to
coal, and I trust will have some news of the Sumter.
	The consul at this port, rather to my surprise, informed me that the
Powhatan had been here some ten days since, stopping only a few
hours, and leaving word that she would return here to coal in a fort-
night. I can not but observe that the sympathy of the West Indies is
with the Southern cause, and that the French and English governors
interpret the proclamations of their governments as to perfect neutrality
into a determination to treat both the Sumter and ourselves as vessels
beloiiging to equally legal belligerent powers. The French, it is said,
would refuse coal to either, and the English grant to both. I have not, as
yet, had occasion to make this issue, thinking it better taste to avoid
the argument so long as I caii obtain coal from private parties.
	I find it will be impossible for me to return by the 5th of October, if
I am to assist in anythiug like a search. Should I upon my arrival at
Trinidad hear nothing more of the Sumter, I shall conclude, as has
been suggested t)y several individuals, that she has left the West
Indies altogether and gone to the Brazils, in which case I shall return
immediately to Hampton Itoads, but can not expect to be there betore
the middle of October.
	As to the ]JlieRae, I have heard nothing of her. She is commanded
by a former first lieuten vt of mine (linger), who was with me in the
Mediterranean; my own idea is that she has gone direct to that station.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	JAS. S. PALMER,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Gommauder.
Secretary ~f the Navy, Washington, D. C.
	SEPTEMBER 25, 1861.
	P. S.Learning that two mail steamers arrive to-day, one from
Demerara, the other from Trinidad, I decided to await their intelli-
gence, as it might alter my intended cruise. In the meanwhile, a vessel
arrived yesterday from Demerara, saying the Powhatan was off the
light-ship of that port about a week since, and sailed N. E.; nothing
heard of the Sumter since leaving Suriuam on the 4th, when she was
seen steering N. E., which is in the direction of the Windward Islands.
I shall leave this port probably to-night; the Mystie sails to-day at
noon, direct for Philadelphia.	[J. S. P.]


Report of Lieutenant Porter, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Powhatan,
of eruise in search of C. S. S. Sumter, inclosing eorrespondenee with the
governor of Maranhain.
U.	S. S. POWHATAN,
]Jifaranham, Coast of Brazil, September 24, 18G1.
	SIR:	I have the honor to address you from this place, where I am in
search of the Sumter, privateer. I have chased her from point to point,
and have gained on her at every place, though in the absence of infor-
ination on the subject I had to speculate on the course she would likely
pursue. She last left Surinam (I)utch Guiana), where I looked in,
housed her pipe, and steered to the N. W. under sail; for which reason
I sailed to the S. E., presuming that she was trying to deceive. I regret
to say that we arrive(l here five days only after she had taken her
departure, every facility having been offered her by the Government
here to get away; three days before I entered the port she was cruising
off the harbor in hopes of capturing a New York brig (the Maria)

Page 92

92	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

which vessel entered with me and escaped. I can form no idea where
the Sumter is at this time, but think she is off Cape St. Roque. I will
follow her as long as my engine will hold together, and if I do not fol-
low her, my visit here will enable me to remove the evil impressions
circulated here or elsewhere by the officers of the Sumter. The course
of the governor of Maranham has been very singnlar. He was really
anxious to supply the Sumter with coal, tl~ough he was not so anxious
that this ship should obtain a supply. With a smaller vessel I would
have caught the Sumter ten days ago, for while I have to take in 700
tons of coal, she only takes 100, and makes about the same speed
this ship does. In consequence of the course pursued by the governor
of this place ii communicated with him on the subject, and inclose a
copy of my correspondence. I would recommend that one of our best
propeller gunboats be sent on the great circle track to Rio de Janeiro
with at least days coal on board. It is the intention of the com-
mander of the Sumter to put himself on the track of East India home-
ward-bound vessels, to burn, sink, and destroy; lie has taken no prizes
since the capture of the Abby Bradford, and as her machinery is
rather defective, the Sumter can not make very good speed, and can
be captured if chased up. They have not the faintest idea that we have
been so close upon them, but are cruising in perfect security, under the
impression that they have thrown everything off the track. I am patch-
ing my machinery to follow her if I can gain the slightest clue to her
movements, but I regret to say that so many secessionists are in this
place who have combined together to deceive me that I am rather at
fault. The Sumter got ashore coming in here, lost her false keel, and
leaks badly. She remained here ten days and left with 15 of her crew
in irons. She has now only 106 men, all told. If I can not get the
necessary supplies of coal here in time I shall have to return to Pensa-
cola, as I could not make headway against the strong N. E. winds without
a full supply.
	I have the honor to remain, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
DAVID D. PORTER,
Lieutenant, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
[Enclosure.]

U.	S. STEAM FRIcfATE POWIJATAN,
]Jfaranham, September 23, 1861.
	EXCELLENCY: I arrived at yonr port yesterday in pursuit of a ves-
sel called the Sumter, fitted out in the States that have placed them-
selves in opposition to the U. S. Government, which vessel has com-
mitted serious depredations on vessels carrying the American flag.
	I regret to he r that, by a decision of your Excellency, she was
allowed to receive a supply of coal, which is contraband of war, owing
to which circumstance she will be enabled to do still further harm to
time commerce of my country. As the damage has been done it may
seem like an act of supererogation on my part to put myself in com-
munication with you; but understanding that the views of your Excel-
lency are somewhat opposed to those of your counselors and that you
coisider that you are acting the part of a neutral in placing the ships
of the United States and a privateer on the samne footing, I deemn it
my duty to endeavor to remove the false impression you are laboring
under, ia case the above-named vessel, or one similarly appointed,
should enter your port again fom the purpose of making this a poin

Page 93

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	93

from which to direct their attacks against the commerce of the United
States.
	If every neutral power should come to the conclusion to supply priva-
teers or armed vessels of aity kiud with munitions of war (which coal
is) there would be au end iu a short time to all the property of oar
merchants; but fortunately there are but few cases iu which the Sun~tcr
has been treated with the distinguished consideration shown to her at
your port and by your Excellencys approbation. The governor of
Cienfuegos, in Cuba, ordered her to leave the outside anchorage, and
would not permit her to enter the port. He also held and delivered to
the United States authorities seven prizes which the Sumter had taken
into Cienfuegos to dispose of.
	The captain-general of Cuba issued an order that no vessel belong-
ing or claiming to belong to the so-called Southern Confederacy should
be allowed to enter Spanish ports under any circumstances. The gov-
ernor of Cura~ao only allowed the Sumter to enter because she was in
distress, having carried away a mast; but he has forbidden his harbor-
master or chief pilot to take any vessel bearing a flag like the Sumter
into that port again. The governor in Trinidad permitted the Sumter
to get coal at his port, much to the mortification of many citizens, who
have a lively perception of what is right or wrong in such matters and
also see, in the continuance of the custom to supply those depredating
vessels with the means to annoy, a certain diminution of that coin-
merce to much of which they owe their property and many of the coin-
forts of life.
	In the decision of the governor of Trinidad may be seen the reflex
of that policy which actuates every Englishman where the prosperity
of the United States is brought in question. We are not surprised at
anything emanating from English consuls, but when we see nations
who have no interests conflicting with ours taking the lead in a mat-
ter intended to despoil us, there is something more than surprise to be
felt by all those interested.
	It strikes me that it opens a question of indemnity which no right-
minded nation would refuse to make, nor without which would a nation
that guards the rights of its citizens be satisfied.
	At Surinam, the governor ordered the Sumter to sea in twenty-four
hours; but the captain set him at defiance and refused to go, and as he
had not the means to make him do so, he was obliged to yield finally to his
demands and gave him the coals to get rid of him. Had he detained
him a few days longer your Excellency would have been saved the
reading of this communication, as every nation has, by a law of nature,
a right to relieve herself the best way she can of what may be considered
a most serious annoyance to her rights and interests.
	The governor of Surinam dismissed the pilot from office who took the
Sumter to sea and forbade any of them from bringing a vessel bearing
that flag into Sarinam again. The governor of Cayenne did not hesi-
tate a moment in the course he was to pursue, but would not let the
Sumter enter that port nuder any terms whatever, although she had no
coal and was obliged to sail under canvas, which she is perfectly capa-
ble of doing, to Surinam.
	Thus, your Excellency will see that the aims and object of that vessel,
(professing to be a ship of war) are held in bad repute at all the places
where she has visited, and I am convinced that it only needs a proper
understanding of the matter on the part of those in authority to break
up the despicable system of piracy against United States commerce, a
system which the United States would not allow to be carried on fro

Page 94

94	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

her ports against a nation with whom she was in profonnd peace and
friendship, any moie than she would submit patiently to a rule of action
entirely new in principle which a few foreign governments have thought
fit to set up for themselves, a principle void of justice and not at all in
harmony with the international laws which nations, by common con-
sent, determined hitherto to be governed by.
	Did the U. S. Government quietly allow the matter to proceed
and become a precedent, nations might naturally suppose that she
acquiesced in the rules laid down by certain parties for her injury, but
your Excellency must understand that the nndcrsigned, in behalf of his
Government, J)rotests in the strongest terms against the acknowledg-
ment of those privateers as bona-fide ships of war. They can not be so
considered unless your Excellencys Government is prepared to acknowl-
edge the existence of an independent government in the so-called Con-
federate States, and have determined to renounce all belief in the
capacity of the lawful Government of the United States to reconcile the
existing difficulties which have been brought about by a defeated
political party, contrary to the wishes of a very large majority of the
people.
	Your Excellencys Government would do much less harm to our com-
merce by supplying those vessels with powder and arms than with
coal, for the former they would not likely have an opportunity to use,
while the latter is the motive power which enables them to go about
from place to place, inflicting a positive injury on innocent persons and
paralyzing a large mercantile community.
	If the United States and any other nation having treaties with Brazil
were at actual war with each other, I aver that it would be an infraction
of such treaty and contrary to the law of nations to fhrnish one party
with the means of inflicting an injury on the other, and so I think the
United States will look upon it.
	Though the past can not be undone, and the commerce of the United
States must suffer for a time from the depredations encouraged by for-
eign aid, yet 1 trust your Excellency will consider the injury that has
been done on the mistake that has been made as regards the Sumter,
and avoid it as far as lies in your power in case that vessel should come
here again, or any others of like character. She can not require coal
if her mission is a peaceful one, for she has all the qualifications of a
first-class sailing vessel, and can without difficulty reach any port she
may desire to go to under sail alone. A knowledge of that fact will
relieve your Excellency from any odium that might be attached to you
for not succoring a vessel in distress. That is the ground upon which
those of the Sumter found their claims for suppliesthe distress result-
ingfrom the fact that without coal they could not burn, sink, and destroy
the merchant vessels of the United States.
	I will merely state to your Excellency some of the acts of the Sum-
ters crew, and you can judge whether such an expedition is worthy [of]
the patronage of a great empire like that of Brazil. She has captured
seven vessels in the neutral waters of Spain, and some of them while
she had the Government pilot on board; the property was also Spanish
to some extent, although carried in American bottoms. She captured
off Puerto Cabello one or two vessels with the property of English sub-
jects on board; she burned wantonly a fine ship owned partly by for-
eigners; she will do the same whenever opportunity offers to the property
of Brazil, if taken on board an American ship. She carried into an
English port the crews of the captured vessels, and failing to induce
them to join their nefarious enterprise, they were brought on deck an

Page 95

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	95

told by the captain that he had oniy kept them to retaliate on them
with hanging at the yardarm in case the Government had pursued
stringent measures against the pirates who had already been captured
by the United States vessels, constituting himself judge and execu-
tioner over the lives of American citizens, whom he might have hung
from seeing some false reports in the newspapers. Then, destitute of
everything, he landed them on shore in that English port to get to their
homes as best they could.
	I ask your Excellency, is the Sumter a worthy object of sympathy,
after performing such acts, and are you prepared to recognize her
anew, or others of the same kind, as regular ships of war ~ If so, your
Excellencys harbor would soon be crowded with them, if the so-called
Confederacy were not impotent to do any more harm in that way or get
any more of their privateers to sea.
	In making this, my protest, I have deemed it due to your Excellency
to rcfer to matters which may be very uninteresting to you, but which
are in no way meant to detract from the energy of my protest. I deem
that you might not understand the true state of affairs, or what was
the actual position of the Sumter and others of that kind in the esti-
mation of the U. S. Government.
	Having explained this to you to the best of my ability, I confidently
expect that your Excellency will take that view of the case which befits
the high position you hold and the Government you represent. As a
proof that your Excellency can take this position in conformity with
the views of your Government, I beg leave to inclose you an extract
from the details in the Camera dos Srs. Depritados, where the Minister
dos INegocios Estrangeros made the inclosed explanation, which clearly
points out the intention of the Imperial Government to give no aid or
assistance to armed vessels fitted out in the so-called Confederate
States for the purpose of enabling them to prey upon American com-
merce.
	I have the honor to remain, with high consideration, your Excel-
lencys most obedient servant, etc.,
DAVID D. PORTER,
Commander U. S. S. Powhatan.
	His Excellency the GOVERNOR OF MARANHAM.



Report of Captain Wynn, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. ]IiEapedonian,
of arrival at Aspinwall, New Granada.

U. S. SHIP MACEDONIAN,
Aspinwall, New Granada, September 24, 1861.
	SIR: I arrived here with the ]Jliacedonian six days since. We came
from Key West, north, about the Bahama Islands, and through the
Crooked Island Passage, but saw nothing suspicious.
	There has been no case of fever on board since the 15th instant. II
will sail in a few hours for Porto Bello, to fill up with water and return
here for further supplies of provisions, before proceeding upon the
execution of your order of the 4th instant.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAMES GLYNN,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 96

96	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Commander Scott, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Keystone
State, of cruise in search of C. S. S. Sumter, enclosing letter from U. S.
consul at Paramaribo.

U.	S. S. KEYSTONE STATE,
Aspinwall, New Granada, September 25,1861.
	Sin: I have the honor to report my departure from Key West, on
the night of the 22d of August, and arrival at Alacran Harbor, coast
of Yucatan, on the 31st. A boat was sent ashore, but no information
was obtained of either the Sumter or her prizes. From thence I pro-
ceeded to the south side of Cuba, and made a careful search through the
keys in the vicinity of the Isle of Pines [isla de Pinos] and Cienfuegos,
where it was believed the Sumter had sent prizes; none, however, wer~
seen. During the search an open boat was found, with three seamen,
one white and two negroes, in a destitute condition, without water or
provisions. They reported themselves deserters from the American
bark Nazarine, at Trinidad, Cuba. The boat was set adrift, being
worthless, and the men taken on boardMichael Coughlin, white; Wal-
lace Johnson and John Williams, negroes. Williams died the day
after; the other two are efficient,and I have deemed it bestto ship
them, as we are short of men.
	From the Keys the course was continued to Grand Cayman, where,
on ascertaining no vessel had been for several months, I proceeded to
the southward, and on communicating at Cura~ao on the 8th, without
entering the harbor, information was received that the Powhatan sailed
from that place six days previons for St. Thomas to coal. Iconsequently,
after touching at Puerto Cabello and gaining no information of the Sum-
ter, proceeded direct to St. Thomas for coal, hoping also to find the
Powhatan, but she had unfortunately sailed four days before my arrival,
the 11th. On the 13th the Iroquois arrived, and on ascertaining from
Captain Palmer that he would touch at the principal Windward
Islands, I sailed, running down the west side of the group, passing
between St. Lucia and St. Vincent, and thence to Surinam, where it
was again hoped to find Commander Porter. On my rrival at the
month of the river, on the 18th, the enclosed letter from the consul was
received, and I continued on to Paramaribo. The consul made a strong
and very proper protest to the governor against allowing the Sumter
coal and other supplies. Commander Porter also addressed him on the
subject; I therefore deemed it unnecessary to either visit or address
him. On leaving the harbor we were saluted from the fort by lowering
their flag, which was returned.
	The Sumter, it is said, endeavored to procure coal at Demerara and
Cayenne and was refused. I am pleased to state that the coal mer-
chants at Paramaribo declined to furnish Captain Semmes coal, and it
was finally furnished by Mr. Wright, a Scotchman, from a sugar estate.
The Sumter has no doubt gone to the sonthward and eastward to inter
cept the homeward-bound East India and California vessels. Capt in
Semmes is aware that several vessels are in search of him, and I think,
will not again make his appearance in the West Indies. I learned
from the keeper of the light-ship off Surinam that the Sumter on
leaving the river lowered her smokestack, closed all her ports, and
had the appearance only of a merchautman; she is bark rigged, and
painted black. Most of her prizes have been taken under the English
flag, and several have been decoyed by hoisting the American flag
Union down. I think it would be well to make this known to the
mercantile marine generally. Deeming it impracticable to continu

Page 97

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	97


the search further to the southward, as this ship is dependent on steam
alone, and there being 110 certainty of procuring coal, I sailed on the
morning of the 19th from Parainaribo for Aspin wall, to coal and repair
the windlass, which was broken and rendered useless on leaving St.
Thomas. The Abby Bradford, captured oft Puerto Cabello in July, is
the last prize taken by the &#38; tmter. Two of hei men deserted the (lay
she sailed, and the crew generally were in a disorganized state. In
accordance with the inclosed communication from the consul, the sea-
men therein mentioned were taken on board this ship and will be sent
home by the first public conveyance. It is much regretted that no
instructions are received in regard to the destiiiation of this ship, as
requested by my letter of August 26. I am still iii doubt as to the
wishes of the Department, and after coaling shall sail for Key West:
in case no advices are had from the Department at that point, shall
proceed to Fort Pickens and report to the flag-officer. The Depart
meat I beg will excuse all defects in this communication, as I write
under great mental snfi~iming.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
G.	H. SCOTT,
[Commander.]
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary-of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosure.]


UNITED STATES CONSULATE,
Port of Paramaribo, September 16, 1861.
	SIR: I beg to inform you that the piratical steamer Sumter arrived
at this port on the 19th of August and left the 31st, after having been
allowed to coal and refit, much to my regret and the shame of this
Government. I used all possible means to prevent her obtaining coal,
and begged the governor in the name of the United States not to allow
any of the inhabitants to supply her, but he and the other authorities
recognized her as a commissioned man-of war of the Confederate
States, and she refitted and coaled, as before stated.
	The U. S. S. Powhatan arrived at the light-ship on the 14th, and left
the same day for the Brazils in pursuit of the Sumter. The commander
and officers have been so well received here, it is my opinion that she
will return if in want of coal; in fact, the commander (Semnmes) stated
that he should probably return in six weeks. I hope it may please you
to come up to town (providing you do not draw more than 18 feet
water), as it would have a most salutary effect npon the authorities,
who are laboring under an hallucination regarding these piratical
cruisers.
	Twenty of the crew deserted and were left behind. They have 64,
all told, only.
	Be on your guard with a pilot named Ballin; do not by any means
take him; all the others I can recommend. Please acknowledge the
receipt of this.
I aum, your most obedient servant,
HENRY SAWYER,

U.	S. Consul.
COMMANDER OF THE U. S. S. MASSACHUSETTS,
Or any other U. S. Man-of- War at the Light-Ship, Surinam.
123A..-

Page 98

98	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from David ill. Stone, esq., to Secretary of the Navy, forwarding
information of affairs in the Bermuda Islands.

OFFICE OF THE JOURNAL OF COMMERCE,
New York, September 25, 1861.
	DEAR SIR: I take the liberty to inclose to you an extract from a pri
vate letter of a well-known and very respectable citizen, just received
by the steamer:
ST. GEORGE, BERMUDA ISLANDS,
September 12, 1861.
	A privateer, brigantine, is off this island awaiting us, it is thought. She has been
standing off and on for a week. It is really surprising that the Government takes no
notice of a place like this, which swarms with secessionists. If the brigantine in
question encounters us, we confidently expect to sink her.
	There have been no arrivals of British men-of-war at this place for some weeks.
Halifax seems to be the grand rendezvous.

	I thought it possible that the above might be of interest, as it is very
late and appeared to be hnportant.
I have the honor to be, your very obedient servant,
DAVID M. STONE,

One of the New Proprietors, Journal of Commerce.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary Navy, etc.



Letter from U. S. vice-consul-general at Havana to senior officer at Key
West, lila., regarding movements of C. S. S. Sumter and other vessels.

U.	S. CONSULATE-GENERAL,
Havana, September 26, 1861.
	SIR: A letter from the U. S. consul at Paramaribo, dated 4th instant,
recently received, advised me that the rebel steamer Sumter was sup-
pliedwith provisions and coal at that place, by permission of the authori-
ties of that colony, and sailed on the 31st of August. Two men of the
crew deserted her and reported to the consul the important [fact] that
her engines cannot be run but a few hours, owing to their heating, and
if any of our vessels should be in chase, she must keep after the Sumter
with the certainty of running her [down] in a few hours. She was
expected to return to Paramaribo in a couple of weeks. The consul
further says, at the last moment, that he had just received the infor-
mation that the Sumter, when a few miles outside, took down her smoke
pipe and completely changed her rig, so as to give her the appearance
of a common merchautman. The Bamberg, of New Orleans, is now
discharging her cargo at the wharf here, a portion of which counts
[consists] of arms and other warlike articles; these are to be depo3ited
in the Government stores, by order of the captain-general.
I am, sir, respectfully, your obedient servant,
THOS. SAVAGE,

Vice- Consul- GeneraL
	SENIOR OFFICER OF THE U. S - NAVY,

Commanding at Key lVest.

	N. B.The Ezilda finally went in command of Einnierson, who was
mate of the prize crew that took the Jos. Maxwell intc Cienthegos

Page 99

OPERATIONS OF THE CRU[SERSUNION.	99

Hicks, the Sumters midshipman, and two other Southerners, formerly
of the U. S. Navy, went as passengers on the Ezilda.
	N.	B.The schooner Prince of lVales, Captain Swasey, under British
colors, arrived here to-day from Beaufort, N. C.
Tnos. SAVAGE,
Vice- Consul- General.



Report of Flag- Officer Inman, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S~ African
Squadron, of arrival at Portsmouth, N. H., requesting orders to strike
his flag.
U. S. FLAGSHIP CONSTELLATION,
Portsmouth, N. II., September 28, 1861.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report the arrival to-day at Portsmontli,
4. H., of the flagship Constellation, Captain Thomas A. Dornin. All
well.
	I respectfully request orders to strike my flag, and to be granted
leave of absence for six months, my health having been impaired dur-
ing my recent service. My residence will be at Philadelphia, Pa.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	WM. INMAN,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Flag-Officer.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.




Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to the Secretary of State relative to
letters of mar que and reprisal.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, October 1,1861.

	SIR:	In relation to the communication of R. B. Forbes, esq., a copy of
which was sent by you to this Department on the 16th ultitno, inquir-
ing whether letters of marque can not be furnished for the propeller
Pembroke, which is about to be dispatched to China, I have the honor
to state that it appears to me there are objections to, and no authority
fbr, granting letters of marque in the present contest. I am not aware
that Congress, which has the exclusive po~ er of granting letters of
marque and reprisal, has authorized such letters to be issued against
the insurgents, and were there such authorization I am not prepared
to advise its exercise, because it would, in my view, be a recognition of
the assumption of the insurgents thia~ they are a distinct and i ide-
pendent nationality. Under the act of August 5, 1861, Supplement-
ary to aii act entitled an act to protect the commerce ol the Unlied
States and to pnnish the crime of piracy, the Pre~ident is authorized
to instruct the conimaiders of armed vessels sailing under the author-
ity of aiiy letters of marque and reprisal granted by the Congress of
the United States, or the commanders of any other suitable vessels, to
subdue, seize, take, and,if on the high seas, to send into any port of the
United States any vessels or boats built, purchased, fitted out, or held,
etc. This allusion to letters of inarque does not authorize such letters
to be issued, nor do I find any other act containing such authorization

Page 100

100	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

But the same act in the second section, as above quoted, gives the Presi-
dent power to authorize the-cominauders of any suitable vessels to sub-
due, seize, etc. Under this clause letters peimissive, under proper
restrictions and guards against abuse, might be granted to the propeller
Pembroke so as to meet the views expressed by Mr. Forbes. This wou~ld
seem to be lawful, and perhaps not liable ~o the objections of granting
letters of marque against our own citizens, and that, too, without law
or authority from the only constituted power that can grant it.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

I am, very respectfully, etc.,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Hon. Wiu. H. SEWARD,	[Secretary of the Navy.]
Secretary of State.



Order from the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Volunteer Lieutenant
Rogers, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. brig Win. U. Anderson, to pro-
ceed to sea under sealed orders.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, October 3, 1861.

	SIR:	The moment the bark Win. G. Anderson, under your command,
is in all respects ready for a cruise, you will proceed with her to sea.
Transmitted herewith are sealed instructions, addressed to you by the
Department, which you will not open until the Win. U. Anderson is at
sea.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant WMJO.] ROGERS,
Commanding U. S. Bark Win. G. Anderson, Boston.

[Enclosure.]


NAVY DEPARTMENT, October 3,1861.

	SIR:	Proceed with the Win. U. Anderson, under your command, to
the neighborhood of Bermuda, where it is reported a rebel pirate is
cruising. After satisfying yourself that such is not the case, you will
take the track of vessels bound to the West Indies, going as f~r east as
the Leeward Islauds, and cruise uiitil it is necessary for you to return to
Boston for stores, not going into port, unless it becomes actually neces-
sary, during the cruise. You will exercise your crew at the great guns
and occasionally with shot and shell. Your object is to capture or
destroy the vessels of the rebels and protect legitimate commerce of
your own flag. In the examination of vessels at sea regard the rights
of neutrals. Whenever an opportunity presents itself, send an abstract
of your cruise to the Department. You will touch at St. Thomas for
information regarding pirates.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Wxr. [0.] ROGERS,
Commanding U. S. Bark Win. U. Anderson, Boston, Mass

Page 101

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	101

Report of Captain Wynn, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship ililacedonian,
proposing plan for protection of American commerce in West Indies.

U.	S. SHIP MACEDONIAN,
Aspinwall, 7/ew Grenada, October 4, 1861.
	SIR: I deem it necessary to notice a report in very general circulation
here that seems to excite a good deal of attention, in anticipation of
its being carried to the United States and there retailed by the passen-
gers and others of the mail steamer that leaves here to-morrow.
	It is believed by many that a suspicious steamer has been hovering
oft this coast three days in succession, within the last two weeks; and
as this ship was at that particular time on a passage to Porto Bello, or
at anchor in that port, it has in some cases been added that the
mysterious stranger was seen to pass close under our stern while
under way; and by others that the fact of her being on the coast was
reported to me in Porto Bello, and that I took no notice of the
information. On our return to this place part of the report was
of course refuted, but the rest has been retained. I yesterday took up
the subject and investigated it to my entire satisfaction.
	it is known, certainly to all in this community, that a regular British
mail steamer arrived here frcm St. Thomas on a Sunday; on Monday
the U. S. mail steamer left for New York, and on Tuesday morning
H. B. M. steamer Landrail sailed a few hours before me. We saw her
during our passage to Porto Bello far to the eastward anti close in
with the land. Thus has the sailing of three different steamers been
brought together to make up this exciting story. It shows the temper
(4 the times and the l)lace, and may suggest a solution to some other
mystery of a similar kind.
	1 have recently been called to reflect upon the general subject of
the danger to American commerce in the West Indies from hostile
cruisers and the best means of protecting it. There is a growing
impression among the floating population wherever I have been within
the last six months that Spain will soon open, if she has not already
opened, her ports in the West Indies to the secession cruisers; and that
England, and perhaps France, will do the same thin o in a short time
after Spain. Should either of these powers adopt such a course it
would let loose upon our shipping all the desperadoes, not only from
around the shores of tropical America, but from all the world, to a
great degree. And as prevention is better than cure, I would suggest
that the Government of the United States set a few active steamers to
making the circuit of the West Indies, in rapid succession, without
delay, and that they be kept going without cessation. A cruiser like
the Keystone State, possessing great speed as the first requisite, and
with sufficient force to dominate over any hostile cruiser known to be
at sea, is all that would
squadron.	be required in any one of the West India
Such a vessel conid coal and provision at this place, for supposition,
and could run to Key West, looking into all suspicious places on her
route. From Key West she could run to St. Thomas in the same way,
and from St. Thomas round by and through all the Windward Islands
to this place again. There should be a number of such vessels follow-
ing each other in as rapid succession as might appear necessary and
varying their routes as circumstances should suggest. The officer
directing their movements would probably find it desirable to remain
much of his time in the harbor of St. Thomas, or near there, where he
would find the common center of nearly all the different lines of steam

Page 102

102	CPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

ers and of sailing packets running to and from the islands and the Main.
Whatever in the shape of a cruiser had touched on one of these lines,
the information would be conveyed to him as certainly as would the pres-
ence of a fly on a distant part of a spiders web be conveyed to the spider
in the center. St. Thomas, too, has no less thaim three different indirect
routes of communication with the United States, namely, by this place,
Havana, and by Europe, and probably some other more direct.
	I would consider it of the utmost importance that this arrangement
should be put into operation before the cruisers of the enemy are at sea,
that the floating population of the world might be intimidated from
entering upon any organization for privateering which, if once effected,
might be persevered in from a necessity and a feeling of desperation.
	*	*	*	*	* *	*

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	JAMES 0-LYNN, Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, 1). 0.


Letter from Messrs. J. M. Forbes &#38; (Jo. to Secretary of the Navy relative
to measures for protection of American commerce in China.

BOSTON, October 7, 1861.
	SIu: Your favor of 1st is received upon the subject of letters of marque
in China.
	The mere power to seize pirates will be of little practical value to the
cautious and responsible owners of steamers and valuable ships now in
China, for they could only stop and search suspected vessels at their
peril, and with danger of interference from foreign cruisers. To be nse-
ful they must have powers of no doubtful character. If it be decided
not to grant letters of marque, let us suggest that authority be given to
our minister to charter any vessels he may deem expedient at not over
$125 per month each (the pay of an acting lieutenant), and to give a
comniission to the commanders thereof taking care to select only dis-
creet, capable men, who shall be paid and maintained by the owners
and shall follow their instructions in the ordinary course of their voy-
ages, but shall also have orders from the minister to overhaul and search
suspicious vessels and to capture pirates or vessels sailing without
papers from [illegible] friendly power. As part of the charter the own-
ers should have the benefit of any prize money or salvage from recap-
tures except such as by custom or contract belong to the officers and
crew, and the Government should in express terms be free from any
claim for the use or expenses of the vessels beyond the $125 per mouth.
If by chance one of our Southern pirates should have gone to the China
seas, this plan might save the expense of sending out a fleet, which would
probably arrive there after immense mischief had been done to the rich
commerce of our citizens and when the robbers had gone elsewhere.
Of course the minister would be instrncted not to use the authority
intrusted to him unless he saw good cause for it on the spot.
Respectfully, your obedient servants,
J.	M. FOREES &#38; Co.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, etc.
	IN. B.The newspapers state that something of the sort suggested
has been done by putting an officer and men on board the Cuban an

Page 103

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	103


California steamers, bat unless the vessels are actually chartered and
thus in the employ of our Government difficulties might arise as to the
right of search or otherwise using the power of ships of war.
J.	M. F. &#38; Co.


Order from Secretary of the Navy to Captain Gliynn, U. S. Navy, com-
manding U. S. sloop ]Jiacedonian, to proceed to Boston, Mass.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, October 9, 1861.

	SIR: On the receipt hereof you will proceed with the U. S. sloop
Macedonian under your command to the navy yard at Boston.
lam, respectfully, your obedient servant, WELLES
	Captain JAMES GLYNN	[Secretary of the Navy.]
Commanding U. S. Sloop Miacedonian, St. Thomas, West Indies.



Report of Lieutenant Porter, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Pouhatan,
of cruise in search of C. S. S. Sumter, enclosing detailed report of
cruise.
U.	S. S. POWHATAN,
St. Thomas, October 10, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my arrival at this port on my way
to Pensacola, last from Maranham, on the coast of Brazil. I regret to
say 1 did iiot catch the Sumter, though I came so close to her that I
arrived in Marauham only three days after she had left the en trance
of the port, where she had cruised three days, expecting to capture
an American brig, the Maria, of New York, all facilities having been
given by the Brazilian authorities to enable her to do so.
	I wrote you from Maranham enclosing a copy of a correspondence I
had with the governor on the subject. After coaling at Maranham and
obtaining all the information about the Sumter to be had, I followed
what I supposed to be her course, namely, down along the equator, in
the track of homeward-bound vessels from India, the Pacific, and
Brazil. Falling in with no vessels whatever from which I could
obtain information, I kept in the track of vessels bound to the north.
	For a better understanding of my movements since I sailed in pur.
suit of the Sumter, I respectfully enclose a copy of my report to Flag-
Officer Mervine.
	The Sumter is at one of two placesshe either got around Cape St.
Roque and went to the southward toward Rio de Janeiro, or she is now
near the equator, between longitude 40~ and 320 W.; likely the latter.
	I was not in a condition as regards coal arid provisions to cruise any
time after her, and it would have been very unwise in me to try and
get around Cape St. IRoque against the strong trade winds in the
present state of this ship. We could make nothing against the strong
winds we encountered. Any ship making a knot more an hour than
we did would have caught the Sumter at Surimmam.
I have the honor to remain, very respectfully,
	DAVID D. PORTER,
	Ron. GIDEON WELLES,	Lieutenant, Commanding.
i)ecretaly of the Navy, Washington

Page 104

	104	OPERXTIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		              [Enclosurel

U.	S. S. POwHATAN, [October, 1861.]
	Sin: In obedience to your order, I proceeded on the night of the
14th of August in search of the rebel steamer Sumter, lately escaped
from New Orleans. On the 17th of August 1 arrived off Cape San
Antonio, communicated with the American schooners Jlfyrorer and B.
Drummond, of New York, Bremen bark Cedar, and a Spanish brig,
from which vessels no intelligence was gained. I was much struck
with the importance of keeping a ship of war at this point (Cape San
Antonio), there being no less than six vessels in sight at one time, and
two of them American.
	From Cape San Antonio I coasted up along as far as the eastern
end of the Isle of Pines [Isla de Pinos], communicated with an Amer-
ican brig (the Franklin), whose captain informed me that a bark called
the Joseph Maxwell, prize to the Sumter, had been taken into Cienfuegos
a day or two before. In consequence I put the vessels head toward
Cienfuegos. I sent a boat in there with an officer, who returned with
the following intelligence
	The bark Joseph Maxwell had been taken into Cienfuegos on the 7th of August by
a prize master and crow, claiming that the Joseph Maxwell was a prize to the Sumter,
captured oft Puerto Cabello.

	The governor of Cienfuegos ordered the prize master to leave the
port with the vessel, which he did, and returned in a short time in an
open boat with the prize crew, stating that the Joseph Maxwell had
foundered outside, the impression being that they had scuttled her.
It appears, however, that as the Joseph Maxwell was standing down
the coast a small Spanish steamer hove in sight, which the prize master
of the Joseph Maxueli mistaking for one of our vessels ran the prize on
shore mit the nearest point, and escaped in their boat. The Spanish
steamer, on coining up and finding the bark uninjured, towed her off
the reef and took her again into Cienfuegos.
	The Joseph Maxwell was then delivered over officially to the American
consul, who received her; but in a short time after an official of the gov-
ernor appeared and stated that the Government officers had committed
a great mistake; that by an old law of Spain a vessel stranded on a
Spanish coast must be held by Government if gotten off, and that the
cargo must be unladen and pay duties; he further stated that he should
get into a deal of trouble if the vessel was retained by the consul, and
begged that the Joseph Maxwell might be given up again to the Spanish
authorities. Under this flimsy pretext, I regret to say that the Amer-
ican consul gave up the vessel again to the Spanish authorities, when it
was very apparent that there was a system of collusion going on, intended
to defraud the owners of their property, all iu keeping with the un-
friendly course of conduct shown by the authorities of Cienfuegos to
the United States interests from the time the Sumter first appeared
off the port. It remains to be seen how far the American consul is
implicated in the transaction which took place there; he is very culpa-
ble for the easy manner in which he let the bark Joseph Maxwell slip
out of his hands into those of the Spanish authorities.
	Leaving Cienfuegos I coasted along toward Cay Breton and boarded
two American vessels bound into Cienfuegos from Aspmwall. One of
them, a smart sailing bark, obliged ire to chase her 30 miles out of my
course before I overtook her. I rom those vessels I obtained no reliable
information, amid determined to go into Jamaica for coal, which 1 did
on the 21st August. Here I saluted the British flag with 21 guns

Page 104A

UNITED STATES STEAMER POWHATAN

Page 104B


Page 105

OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.	105

which was returned by the same number. Various rumors were flying
about at Jamaica relative to the movements of the Sumter, but notie
of them being reliable I determined to proceed to Cura~ao; went in and
anchored, found that the Sumter had been there and coaled, that she had
left on the 24th Jnly for parts unknown, and had since arrived at the
island of Trinidad, where she had received all facilities for annoying
American commerce.
	The Price Current notified the public that the Sumter had passed the
island of Margarita on the 5th August, steering west, and on the 14th
the Keystone State passed Cura~ao in search of the Sumter, in conse-
quence of hearing that she had gone north; this, however, was a mis-
take, as the Sumter turned back on her course and after sighting Bar-
bados put into Surinam River on the 20th August.
	I found while in Cura~ao that the Sumter had been allowed to enter
and enjoy the privileges of a vessel of war, though no official courtesies
passed between the vessel and town. She received 100 tons of coal (all
she could carry) and left for the eastward on the 22d July. Owing to
the facilities extended to her at Cura~ao she was enabled to capture
the bark Joseph Maxwell and the schooner Abby Bradford; the latter
recaptured by the Powhatan.
	llearing that it was the intention of the governor of Cura~ao to allow
so-called Confederate vessels assuming to be menof-war to enter and
receive su~pplies, I addressed him the enclosed letters A and B, and
received in reply the copies C and D, which explain the grounds of my
protest and the governors reply thereto.*
	On the 2d September 1 sailed from Cura~ao for St. Thomas, that
being the most likely place to obtain news. I boarded vessels on my
way up from La Guayra and ascertained that the Sumter had not been
heard of for some time on that coast. On the 4th September I entered
the port of St. Thomas, saluted the Danish flag, and took in 340 tons of
coal.
	A schooner direct from Berbice (to the eastward of Demerara)
brought intelligence that the Sumter was in Surinam on the 4th Sep-
tember, without coal or provisions, and that a schooner freighted by
Captain Semmes and sent to Deinerara for coal had been seized by the
British authorities. I lost no time in getting to sea, and on the morn-
ing of the 7th September was steering for Surinam. I steered close in
to the island of St. Croix, and showed our colors as we passed the town
of Frederichstaid.
	On the 9th September passed the island of Martinique, looked into
the harbor of Port Royal, and showed our flag.
	At 12 oclock meridian, on the 10th, entered the harbor of Bridge-
town, island of Barbados, saluted the British flag, and sent a boat on
shore to communicate with the American consul. I did not anchor at
this port, but kept under steam, and after seeing a letter in the posses-
sion of the consul (Mr. Trowbridge), informing him that the Sumter had
obtained coal at Surinam and had left that port on the 31st August, I
at once left in pursuit.
	The consul at Surinam officially informed the consul at Barbados
that the Sumter when she left the port of Surinam or Paramaribo had
lowered her smokestack and proceeded under sail, this movement
looking as if she was going to the westward again (unless it was a
ruse). I steered for Demerara light-boat to obtain information whether
she had gone down the coast.

~Seep. 79

Page 106

106	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I regretted to learn from the consul at Barbados that the authorities
were disposed to place the Sumter on a footing with United States ves-
sels of war, and would likely afford her facilities if she came there; also
that the United States ships of war would not be allowed to coal there
if the Sumter was not. Strange as it may appear, the Sumter in Spanish,
Dutch, and English ports has been treated with marked consideration,
though no official courtesies were passed, and but for the facilities
allowed at those ports she would have been unable to depredate ou
United States commerce; in fact, as well as I have ascertained so far,
a friendly feeling has not been exhibited toward the United States in
the ports visited by the Sumter, which will no doubt be regretted when,
through the interruption of commerce, they will be obliged to pay
higher prices for provisions, with which they are mostly supplied from
the Northern States of the Union.
	On the 13th of September 1 communicated with the light-ship off
Demerara, and ascertained that the Sumter had not been heard of to the
westward, but that there were rumors of her having gone to Cayenne.
The British governor at Demerara had given orders that no pilots
were to be furnished her, and that she would not be permitted to enter
Demerara. I heard that the captain of the Sumter had set the Dutch
authorities at defiance in Surinam, and refused to leave the port (though
ordered to do so in twenty-four honrs) unless he was furnished with
coal, which he finally got. The presence of a Duetch and French vessel
of war did not restrain him, as he was superior (or supposed to be) in
force to them both. Both at Demerara and Surinam there is an active
commerce carried on in American vessels which bring provisions from
the North. It would be directly opposed to the interests of the colonies
to have this commerce broken up, and the merchants and citizens are
much opposed to the privateer system adopted by the rebellious States.
At Demerara I learned that up to the 31st of August the Sumter had
captured eleven prizes. Ten have been given up or recaptured; the
name of the eleventh one I can not ascertain, but I think it was a coal
vessel with a freight for the Venezuelan Government.
	On the 13th of September I arrived at the light-boat off Surinam and
communicated with the pilots. Here I learned what I had heard
before, that the Sumter had left on the first of the month, had taken
in 200 tons of coal, had anchored outside and lowered her smokestack,
and that toward evening she had made sail and steered north. She
had, before going to Surinam, gone to Cayenne, to the eastward, but
the governor of that place ordered her away, and would let her have
nothing at that port. She was so short of coal that she had to sail
down to Surinam. Taking into consideration all things, and their
spreading a report that the Sumter was going to Jamaica, and would
be back in three weeks to Surinam, 1 concluded that she was going off
Cape St. Roqne and felt it was my duty to try and overtake her. I
found by calculating her passage that we made 50 miles more a day
than she did, and I felt certain of catching her if my boilers would hold
out. One of them unfortunately broke down the day after leaving Sari-
nam, but as the sea was as smooth as glass, with a prospect of remain;
ing so, I kept on, with the intention of stopping at Maranhamn, in Brazil,
for it was there the Sumter would likely stop for coal, and I could receive
intelligence whether she put into Para, in which case I had a chance of
cutting her off as she came to the eastward.
	On the 21st of September, after a hard pull up against the strong
trade winds and current, running 60 miles a day, I arrived at St. Louis
[San Luizjj, Maranhain, and found, much to my regret, that the Sumte

Page 107

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	107

had left there only live days previous to my arrival. Three days before
I got in she was cruising off the port in hopes of capturing a New York
brig (the Maria) which was expected daily. The brig referred to entered
the port at the same time I did and escaped the Sumter.
	The arrival of this ship at Maranhain (the largest vessel that ever
entered there) created a great excitement. It was very gratifying to
the U. S. consul, who, to use his own words, had seen his flag over-
shadowed by the consideration with which the Sumter and her officers
had been treated.
	I found rather a strange state of affairs at Maranham. The governor
and citizens had taken the Sumter into favor at once, and the former
extended to her all the rights of a belligerent; he not only gave his
consent for her to receive supplies of all kinds, but in sisted that a
merchant who held coal and did not wish to part with it should sell
the Sumter 94 tons.
	The commander of the Sumter was received officially by the gover-
nor, and invitation extended to him to be present at a ball, but the
governor refused to answer any salute the Sumter might fire, On the
ground that the flag she carried was not a recognized one, though it
was entitled to the respect paid a belligerent.
	Our consul at Maranham, ~~~illiain [II.] McGrath, esq~, did all he
could to detain the Sumter, but his protests were treated with very
little consideration. He had to witness the good understanding that
existed between Captain Semmes and the authorities without being
able to prevent it, and he had not the slighest expectation of see-
ing an American inanof war in that place.
	You may judge of his satisfaction at seeing the American flag float-
ing at the peak of the largest ship that had ever entered Maranham,
when Captain Semuies and his officers had impressed the governor and
people with the idea that the South had the largest part of the ships
formerly belonging to the Navy, and that the Government was so
hampered that it could not even fit out a ship or ships to pursue him.
The captain of the Sumter made various addresses to the governor
and people, in which he informed them that the South was fighting
the battles of Brazil, that the North was fighting to exterminate
slavery, and if they succeeded in conquering the South that the
United States would turii her attention to abolishing slavery in Brazil.
Ignorant and fanatical, the Brazilians believed the specious argu-
ments of Captain Seinmes, backed as they were by the assertions of a
party of Americans who were all secessionists. One American backed
his assertions by lending the Sumter $2,000 or $3,000 to pay for her
coal and taking Confederate scrip in the place of it.
	I found that politics ran almost as high in i aranham on the subject
of secession as it did in the Southern States, the matter being dis-
cussed and voted on daily at the exchange and the Government tak-
ing no steps to stop proceedings so injurious to the interests of the
United States. I had it from creditable authority that there was a
perf~ect understanding between thQ governor and Captain Semmes, and
that the former had assured the latter that he might bring the brig
Maria into Maranham and land her cargo in case he captured her.
	Under all these circumstances (which were well ascertained) I did not
deem it in~umnbent on me to observe any particular etiquette toward
the Government beyond firing the usual salute, and I requested the
consul to make the governor understand that I did not feel myself
called on to pay a visit of ceremony to a government which had so
failed in its treaty obligations to the United States. I sent him a pro

Page 108

108	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

test against his action in the case of the Sumter, a copy of which,
marked E,is herewith enclosed.*
	I became acquainted while in Maranham with a leading politician
(Senor Sousa) opposed to the governor. I left him a copy of my pro-
test, and he gave me assurance that everything would be done to place
the conduct of the governor in its proper light before the Government
of Brazil, and I feel pretty sure that he will be removed, inasmuch as
he has gone directly contrary to the declarations of the minister of for-
eign relations.
	I left nothing undone while in Maranhain to find ont the smallest
matter relating to the Sumter and her movements. I found by the
steamers and coasters daily coming in and touching at all the little
ports along the coast that she was nowhere there, and it having been
mentioned in my hearing that Captain Semmes was going where it
would cost him no coal to get to, and where he could cruise under sail,
IL formed the opinion that he had gone down to the track of vessels
bound home from the East Indies, Pacific, and Brazil.
	I was more coiifirmed in this opinion by the pilot who took the Sum-
ter to sea informing me that she only steered as high as N. E., whereas
she would have steered east if going around Cape St. Roque. More-
over, she got ashore going into Maranham, knocked off her false keel,
and leaked in consequence. It may have injured her machinery, as
she thumped hard over an hour, and she could not get around Cape
St. Itoque unless she was in the best condition.
	Taking all things into consideration, I sailed on the 28th September,
after being able to take in only a small supply of coal, and steered to
the north until I reached the track of vessels from ~he East Indies,
Pacific, and Brazil, in about longitude 440 west. I found that by the
wind, under sail and low steam, I could about reach the above position,
and most likely follow in the track of Sumter or close to it.
	It had been intimated to me by one of Captain Semmes confidential
friends that the Sumter intended to take no prizes, but would burn,
sink, and destroy all she might fall in with; more particularly Boston
and Eastern vessels, the performance of which feat he seemed to antic-
ipate much pleasure in. It is only sincerely to be hoped that the Gov-
ernment may defeat his aims and objects, even if it has to send all the
navy afloat after the Sumter, and go to the expense of building a hun-
dred new vessels for this purpose.
	1 gained the following facts in regard to the Sumter, which maybe
relied on: She carries five guns, four light 32-pounders, and one 8-inch
pivot on the lower deck abaftt he foremast. She can only carry 114
tons of coal, and uses 12 tons a day, full steaming. She cant run full
speed on account of heating her journals, and a vessel in chase running
10 knots would overtake her in a few hours. She sails moderately well
under canvas off the wind, bat on account of the loss of her false keel,
which she lost by getting ashore off Maranham, she cant hold a wind;
almost any sailing vessel will beat her. Close hauled in a fresh breeze,
with sails and steam, she could not overtake a smart sailing craft.
Her crew consists of 106 men, all told, well disciplined, but discontented;
she left port with 15 of them in irons.
	She only made 6 knots with 10 pounds of steam, going out of Maran-
ham, and it was thought she had injured herself and got her machinery
out of line when she got ashore. She will, if possible, return to Maran-
ham, and send her prizes there if she dont burn them. They are

~See p. 92

Page 109

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNJON.	109

short of money, without which they cant run much longer, as Confed-
erate scrip is not at par, even in Brazil.
	After running due north to latitude 110,440 west longitude, and being
fairly in the track of vessels from the East Indies, Pacific, and Brazil,
I kept on the northern edge of it, steering N. N. W. and N. W. by N.
until nearly abreast of St. Thomas.
	On the 10th of October an English brig entered the port of St.
Thomas, and informed us that she had been boarded by the Sumter on
the 5th of October in longitude 470 25 west, 90 north latitude. To
show how close this ship was on her track, and how very close our cal-
culations were as regards her movements, I beg leave to state that at
the time the Sumter boarded the English brig we were only 75 miles
from her; and that night we gave chase to a light, which was not far
off, but which suddenly disappeared, and of which we could find no
trace; likely it was the Sumter.
	She will continue to cruise in the track of homeward-bound vessels,
changing her position every time she boards a vessel, but she will
always maintain such a position that she will be enabled to reach Mar-
anham with a slant of wind if she gets out of or short of coal, for I am
well assured that Maranham will be the place she will resort to for sup-
plies, and likely send her prizes there.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	DAVID D. PORTER,
	Flag-Officer WILLIAM MERYINE,	Lieutenant, Commanding.
Gulf Blockading Squadron, off Pensacola.



Report of Commander Scott, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Keystone
State, of capture and disposition of prize steamer Salvor, captured near
Tortugas Islands, with enclosures on same subject.

lIT. S. S. KEYSTONE STATE,
Philadelphia, October 25, 1861.
	SIR: My last communication, of September 26, notified the Depart.
ment of my arrival at Aspinwall, where I remained until the 5th instant
for the purpose of convoying the California steamer, which Colonel
Totten and Mr. Parker, of the Panama Railroad, informed me was
expected to carry a large number of Government arms, and it was
deemed highly important that they should be protected. The arms
did not arrive, however, and after convoying the steamer through the
islands, I proceeded to Key West to coal and replenish our provisions.
On the evening of the 11th I arrived at Key West, and early next morn-
ing, in getting the ship to the wharf, grounded on a bank, where we
were detained until late Saturday evening, when we got to the wharf
and made preparations for coaling early Monday morning.
	On Sunday afternoon the enclosed letter, marked A, was handed to
me by Major French, and I proceeded with all dispatch in search of
the steamer, and that night, between the hours of 11 and 12, captured
her near the Tortugas Islands, steering direct for Tampa Bay, Fla.,
and placing Lieutenant Donaldson with a crew from this ship in charge,
took her in tow and carried her to Key West. Early on Monday, the
14th, a search was commenced to ascertain the contents of her cargo.
During the search Major French, of the Army, came on board, an

Page 110

110	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

with hhn the marshal, who, withoat request, assisted in searching for
papers, etc.
	in the afternoon of the same day, whilst I was having the hatches
secured, and before the papers had been assorted or any communica-
tion had with the district judge or attorney, the marshal made his
appearance with a libel, claiming possession 01 the vessel, which I
declined to permit, and ordered his deputy and two men out of the ship.
I then called on the district attorney and was informed by him that the
libel was issued without a knowledge of the facts, and nuder the sup-
position that it was my wish, further adding that the marshal was a
new apl)ointment, not well acquainted with his business and the whole
matter intormal. I conversed freely with the district attorney in regard
to the prize, and [was] clearly informed that I had a perfect right to take
her to any port that I deemed proper for trial, but the owner, McKay, and
two others, who had been given up to Major French, must be tried there.
Thus matters stood without any decision on my part as to my final
action.
	Feeling fully my embarrassing situation, I consulted with Major
French, Captains Brannan and Gillem, of the Army, Commander Pick.
ering, of the Navy, the collector and inspector of customs, the naval
storekeeper, and many of the most prominent and true Union men, all
of whom urged that she should by all means be taken north for trial,
because if condemned there, which was thought doubtful, as her owner
was popular xv ith those who were Unionists from necessity, she would be
purchased by his friends at one-fourth her value; and, again, her cargo,
consisting of arms, coffee, hats, caps, shoes, and cigars, would soon be
transported to the Main, where communication is kept up daily. I
enclose a letter from the citizens of Key West on the subject, umarked B.
	1 had also an interview with Judge Marvin on the subject, who like-
wise admitted that the libel was informal and that I had a perfect right
to take the vessel where I deemed most proper, but having eimtered
that port, it became my duty to turn her over to the court. This he
gave as his opinion, saying he had no power in the matter until it was
legally brought before him. 1 could not, however, perceive, and so
stated it to the judge, why from having entered the port it became
imperative to turn over this vessel, as several captured on the Florida
coast had entered that port, remained several days, and then proceeded
north for trial. To this no answer could be given, and it became evi-
dent to me, after mature and deliberate consideration, that it was my
duty to take the vessel north.
	And on the evening of the 15th it was well known that I would sail
the next day. Nothing, however, was received from either the judge
or attorney until the afternoon of the 16th, when, as the ship was
getting under way, the deputy marshal caine on board, saying he was
directed to arrest me. I should most certainly have obeyed the sum-
mons had it been sent in proper time, but as the ship was then in the
act of leaving, with a bare sufficiency of time to clear the reefs before
night, I declined going before the judge, deeming it my duty to make
known at the earliest moment to the senior officer oft Charleston the
information contained in the consuls letter regarding the Spanish bark
loading at havana and bound for that port, a copy of which was placed
in the hands of Commander Sartori on the morning of the 19th for the
senior officer off Charleston. This is the first time in my life that I
have ever disobeyed the laws of my country, either military or civil, and
if I have erred in this instance it may be fairly ascribed to a conscien-
tious belief that I was acting for the best interest of my country

Page 111

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	111

	Off Cape Hatteras I experienced a heavy gale of wind from the east
ward, during which, notwithstanding the utmost care and precaution,
our hawsers parted, and we were necessarily separated from the prize
for near forty hours, during which time great anxiety was felt for her
safety, but found, on again taking her in tow, that she had made better
weather than the Keystone State.
	It was my intention to have brought her to New York, but the con-
tinued prevalence of bad wheather and the loss of the prizes rudder,
together with the breaking down of her engine, compelled me to put
into this port. This steamer was seized in July or August by Com-
mander Craven, of the Crusader, it being well known at Key West
that her owner had taken the oath of allegiance to the Southern Con-
federacy and was an agent to sell their bonds.
	Her owner applied to Commander Craven to leave the port and was
refused, unless he gave bonds for 20,000, and then only to enter a
Northern port. At the request. however, of Major French she was
turned over to the Army and sent, with a quartermaster, to havana
for horses, when it is said her machinery was out of order and that she
could not return.
	A sham sale was then made to an English subject, a cargo taken in,
as far as can be ascertained at present consisting of 200 sacks of coffee,
400,000 cigars, 400 revolvers, a number of rifles, dirks, bowie knives,
a 6-pounder canyon, a quantity of felt hats, caps, shoes, 500,000 per-
cussion caps, and a quantity of fruit. With this cargo she cleared for
Nassau, an English port, as the Saleor, although by her register she is
called the M. S. Perry. Only a slight examination of her cargo has so
far been made, and it is believed she has a much larger number of arti-
cles than has been enumerated.
	The steamer was built at Buffalo by an insurance company in the
most thorough manner, of white oak, in 1856, schooner rigged, with
3 masts; length, 161 feet; breadth of beam, 25 feet 4 inches; depth
of hold, 11 feet 7 inches; tonnage, 450g. She is coppered aiid her
hull in a good state of preservation. The engine is also good, but
her boilers are worn out and will only bear steam enough to keep
headway on her. I saw the vessel when building and at various times
for three years after, and feel confident that, with a moderate outlay,
she can be made an efficient gunboat, well adapted for service oii the
Southern coast. Knowing all these facts, I considered it my impera-
tive duty to take the responsibility of bringing her North, and feel
satisfied that I will be sustained by the Department.
	All the above reasons were known to Judge Marvin, and he stated
that he had no objection to the vessels going North if it did not cast
an imputation of disloyalty on his court. He was well aware, however,
that I entertained no thought of disloyalty on his part, though there
are persons on the island who do.
	There are 700 persons on the island that have taken the oath of
allegiance, and yet I was reliably informed that there are iiot over 150
true Union men. In additien to the ships papers I have a number of
sealed letters addressed to New Orleans, Savannah, Charleston, Mobile,
and other places in Texas and Florida. Will the Department be
pleased to instruct me if these letters shall be delivered to the district
judge or sent to Washington? It appears to me that they contain
information which may be important to the Government, and is not
required to condemn the vessel. There are 6 slaves on board tb~
prize, 5 of whom belon0 to McKay, the owner, and 1 who belongs P~
an officer, formerly of our Army and now in the rebel service

Page 112

112	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I shall be pleased, if authorized, to communicate with the Depart-
ment in person.
	Hoping that my action in this matter will meet the approval of the
iDepartment, I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient
servant,
		G. H. SCOTT,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander.
$ ecretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosure A.]

CONSULATE-GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES AT HAVANA,
	October 12, 1861.
	SIR: I advised Mr. Howe, the collector at Key West, on the 30th
ultimo of the sale here by Mr. McKay of his steamer, the Salvor, to a Mr.
John MeLenan, a Scotchman, to be placed under British colors. Since
then she was put up for Nassau, New Providence, and to-day she has
been cleared for said port. I have enquired at the custom-house, and
ascertained that her cargo consists (according to permits obtained) of
309,700 cigars and 100 bags of coffee. But I have received secret
information from various quarters that she will ultimately proceed to,
and endeavor to enter, one of the blockaded ports, probably New
Orleans; that arms and other war material have been secretly shipped
upon her, and that two or three passengers are going in her to the South
How true this may be I am unable to ascertain in tilne to communicate
before her departure, which I understand will be to-morrow morning at
about 7 oclock. The greater part of the Salvors crew consisted of
negroes, the property of McKay and his mother-in-law~ he assured me
last evening that it was his intention to take them in the Salvor and
land theni at Key West, as he could not help himself. He may do so
or he may not. It appears to me that it would be dangerous for him
to take slaves to Nassau, as they might claim their freedom and obtain
it, but he may deem it expedient to mu some risk and take them into
iNew Orleans, or elsewhere on the Southern coast, without touching
at Nassau. I apprehend this, because I can not see what use they can
have at Nassau for such a large quantity of cigars.
	A Spammish bark is now loading here which draws about 10 feet of
water when in the train [trim] she will leave here. She will sail in about
six days from this date. A young shipmaster named Perry (son of the
person that was taken in the privateer Petrel off Charleston and now
in prison at Philadelphia) will, in all probability, go in her as pilot. He
is a native of Charleston. The ship will be full of supplies for the South.
I have learned it is intended to run her into Charleston if the wind is
favorable; if southerly, run in shore to the southward, where there are
inlets that Perry knows he can go in drawing 10 feet. I do not know
the barks name at present, but expect to learn it this eveniiig or
to-morrow. I will then communicate it. The above is reliable.
	As no smack will sail this evening or to-morrow for Key West I have
requested Captain Wilson to run over with this letter this afternoon.
The Marion is not iii, and the Lord knows if she will be in before
to-morrow, or when.
	Please make contents of this letter kmmown to the naval officers; au%
with regards to friends, I remain, yours,
THOS. SAVAGE,
U S. Vice- Consul, eIt~.
Major WILLIAM H. FRENCH,
Commanding U. S. Trooys, etc

Page 113

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	113
[Enclosure B.]


KEY WEST, October 14, 1861.
	DEAR SIR: We take pleasure in congratulating you upon the success
of your recent trip in capturing and bringing to this port the steamship
3r.	S. Perry, loaded with stores and ammunitions of war evidently
intended for the rebels in the Confederate States. By fitting the Perry
with new boilers, she could readily be converted into a gunboat and
made highly serviceable to the Government in crushing the rebellion
against it. Considering that there are no means of supplying boilers
to vessels in Key West, and that the exigencies of the public service
require all the ships which can benmade available for the Navy with the
least possible delay, we recommend that you carry the Perry at oiice
to New York for adjudication. Another reason, the Perry is claimed
to be a British ship, and when captured had several slaves on board.
Their testimony would not be admissible in Key West, but could be
available in New York. Many other reasons might be urged, but we
deem the foregoing sufficient to justify the course we recommend.
	Our only motive in addressing you this communication is to main-
tain the Union in its integrity, and contribute, as far as in our power,
to the honor and glory of the administration which you are so gal-
lantly sustaining.
With high regard, your obedient servants,
A.	PATTERSON, U. S. iVaval Storekeeper.
CORNELIUS CURTIS.
J.	G. OLTMANNS, Assistant U. S. Coast Survey.
	Commander G. II. SCOTT,	[And 9 others.]
U.	S. S. Keystone State.




Order from Secretary of the Navy to Flag. Officer Du Pont, U. S. Navy,
to dispatch vessel to intercept C. S. S. Nashville.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, October 15, 1861.
	SIR:	It is reported that the steamer Nashville has run the blockade
at Charleston, with Messrs. Mason and Slidell on board.
	Have you a fast steamer that can be spared? If so, let her be dis-
patched to intercept the Nashville.
GIDEON WELLES.
	Flag-Officer S. F. DU PONT,
Astor House, New York.

	(Copy sent to Commodore Breese.)




[Telegram.]


(Received October 15, 1861, from New York.)
	Telegram received. Will dispatch a vessel immediately.
S.	F. Dir PONT.
Hon. G. WELLES.
123A

Page 114

114	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
Order from Flag. Officer Du Pont, U. S. Navy, to Commander Marchaud,
commanding U. S. S. James A dger, to search for C. S. S. Nashville.

NEW YORK, October 15, midnight, 1861.1
	SIR: I have received a telegraphic dispatch from the honorable Sec-
retary of the Navy, giving a report that the steamer Nashville has run
the blockade of Charleston, with Messrs. Mason and Slidell on board,
bound, of course, to England or France, most likely the former.
	The Department is anxious to have this vessel intercepted and taken;
the speed of your steamer and her supply of fuel and your own intelh-
gence offer the best chance of doing this of any vessel at my disposal.
Although regretting much to lose you even for a few days from my
squadron, for I can ill spare you from pending service, yet it is very
desirable that an effort should be made to overtake or intercept the
Nashville. You are therefore charged with this important service, and
I leave to your discretion the best course to steer in order to effect it.
The Nashville will probably, after leaving the coast, steer a direct
course or inclining south of it. You are at liberty to choose as to
where you will enter to coal, either in an English or French port, or at
the Western islands.
	Some three or four vessels, it is believed, are on their way to Georgia
or South Carolina with military stores or munitious of war from Eiig-
land, and you should have an eye to their going or returning.
	You will enter the Chesapeake on your return an(1 report to the flag-
officer present, with whom I will leave orders for you.
	Trusting in yonr experieuce and intelligent discretion, and wishing
you success,
I am, respectfully, yours,
S.	F. Du PONT,
Flag-Officer.
	Commander J. B. MARCHAND,
Commanding U. S. Steamer Jas. Adger, New York.


Report of Commander Marchand, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. James
Adger, of sailing in search of the C. S. S. Nashville.

U.	S. STEAMER JAMES ADGER,
Off Sandy Hook, October 16, 1861, 4:30 oclock a. m.
	SIR: In obedience to your instructions, received at 1 :30 oclock this
morning, I have the honor to report that this ship is safely outside of
the bar.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MARCHAND,
C~ommander.
	Flag-Officer S. F. Du PONT,
Commander-in- Chief, etc.


Letter from commandant navy yard, New York, to Flag- Officer Dn Pont,
U.	S. Navy, relative to dispatching vessel to intercept C. S. S. Nash-
ville.
NAVY YARD, October 16, 1861.
	SIR: I forward you a telegraphic dispatch received late last night.
I have no steanier that can be made available sooner than a day; thi

Page 115

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	115

would give the Nashville four days start. The requirement of the
Department as expressed in the telegram can only be carried into effect
by the detailing the Florida or Augusta for that purpose. Could either
of those vessels be spared for that end ~
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SAML. L. BREESE,
Commandant.
	Flag-Officer Du PONT,
	Commanding South Atlantic Blockading Squadron.





[Telegram.]


(Received October 16, 1861, from New York.)
	I have dispatched steamers Curlew and James Adger in pursuit of
the Nashville; Curlew to return when her coal is expended; Adger to
continue all the way.
S.	F. Du PONT.
Hon. G. WELLES.




Report of Flag. Officer Du Pont, U. S. Navy, of sailing of U. S. steamers
James Adger and Curlew to intercept C. S. S. Nashville.

STEAM FRIGATE WABASH, October 16, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform the Department what I have already
done briefly by telegraph, that I dispatched last night in a very short
time after receiving your message the steamer James Adger, Com-
mander Marchand, and the steamer Curlew, acting Lieutenant Com-
manding Watmough, in pursuit of the steamer Nashville, said to have
run the blockade of Charleston with Messrs. Mason and Slidell on board.
The Adger will run across to the channel, and if, as I think, the Nash-
ville will run a long time before she ventures to make her northing, the
difference of time may be overcome.
	The Curlew has attempted an intersection at a point indicated by
the shortness of her fuel, for she carries but eight days supply, and I
have ordered her back to Hampton Roads; also the Adger. Both
vessels have orders to look out for the steamers expected from Europe
to the rebel States, and this induced me in part to send the latter ship,
for her chance is small, I fear, of crossing the Nashville.
	The Department will readily believe I felt strong regrets at losing
two good ships so well commanded as these from my squadron ; but
whether successful in the chase or not, I deemed it important to show,
if the blockade could be run, that prompt measures could be directed
in reference thereto, and which I was sure the Department greatly
desired.
I am, sir, with great respect, your obedient servant,
S.	F. Du PONT,
	Flag-Officer, Commanding South Atlantic Blockading Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
	Secretary of the Navy, Washington

Page 116

	116	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		                 [Telegram.]


INAVY DEPARTMENT, October 16, 1861.
	SIR: A duplicate of dispatch to you was last night sent to Commo-
dore Breese. But one boat is to be sent after the Nashville.
GIDEON WELLES,
[&#38; cretary of the Navy~.
	Flag-Officer S. F. Du PONT,
Astor House, New York.




[Telegram.]


	(Received October 16, 1861, from Navy Yard, New York.)
SECRETARY OF NAVY:
	Connecticut may be ready this evening. Shall she be sent? To what
point shall she be directed? The Nashville is fast and has four days
start. Please telegraph immediately.
SAML. L. BREESE,
[Commandant.]




[Telegram.]


NAVY DEPARTMENT, October 16, 1861.
	Send the Connecticut to Bermuda, and if any information is obtained
there relative to that vessel, pursue her; otherwise return at once.
GIDEON WELLES.
	Commodore S. L. BREESE,
Navy Yard, New York.




Order from commandant navy yard, New York, to Commander Wood-
hull, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Connecticut, to pursue C. S. S.
Nashville.

NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, October 16, 1861.
	SIR: Please proceed with all dispatch to Bermuda, in pursuit of the
rebel steamer Nashville, which vessel on Saturday last ran the blockade
from Charleston. If at Bermuda you obtain information of her, you
will pursue and capture her. If no information is obtained of her,
return immediately to this port.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
SAML. L. BREESE,
Commandant.
	Commander M. WOODITULL,
Commanding U. S. S. Connecticut, New York

Page 117

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	117

Letter from U. S. consul at Paramaribo to commanding officer of any
United States ship of war, giving information of C. S. S. Sumter.

U.	S. CONSULATE, PER EASTERN LIGHT,
Port of Paramaribo, October 17, 1861.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you that by an arrival of a schooner
fro~n (Xira~ao I have been informed that the piratical steamer Sumter is
near or on an island about 30 miles to the windward of Cura~ao and
the crew cruising about in their boats.
I am, your most obedient servant,
HENRY SAWYER,
U.	S. Consul.
COMMANDER OF ANY U. S. SHIP OF WAR THIS MAY MEET.



Report of Flag- Officer Du Pont, U. S. Wavy, qf return ~f U. 5. 5. Cur-
lew from cruise in search of C. S. S. Nashville.

FLAGSHIP WABASH,
Hampton Roads, October 19, 1861.
	SIR:	I have to report that the Curlew, Acting Lieatenant Watniough,
caine in this evening. His report explains the reason of his early
return, (lefects in the engine rendering further parsuit unwise.
	These defects, however, will not impair her usefulness for the work
we have on hand, and I am much pleased at having her back.
With great respect, your obedient servant,
S.	F. Du PONT,
	Flag- Officer, Comdg. South Atlantic Blockading Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
	Secretary of the Navy.

	P.	S.Lieutenant Watmoughs report was sent to Commodore Golds-
borongh~ and if not forwarded by him will be sent to-morrow.




Report of Acting Lieutenant P. U. Watmough, U. S. Navy, of cruise to
intercept C. S. S. Nashville.

U.	S. S. CURLEW,
Off Fortress Monroe, October 19, 1861.
	SIR:	In obedience to your order of the 15th instant I went to sea at
4 a. iii. on the morning of 16th for the purpose of endeavoring to intercept
the steamer Nashville. After steaming to the southward and east
ward 210 miles, 1 was satisfied from the following reasons that it was
a useless expenditure of coal to continue on: The tubes of the surface
condenser in three cases gave out and admitted the salt water iiito the
boilers, causing them to foam to such an extent that frequent stoppages
of the engine became necessary to find where the water stood. After
plugging up these tubes the foaming continued, rarely admitting more
than 65 revolutions to the propeller, giving an average speed of about
8 knots, and even at this low rate necessarily attended with great risk
to machinery in working through the water. The head sea also caused
her to throw out her propeller, which alone would have necessitate

Page 118

118	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

slow and cautious steaming to prevent the racing of the engines and
consequent risk. The Curlew appears strong and tight, and behaves
well in a tolerably rough sea abeam. Our return trip to this port con-
firmed me in my judgment as to discontinuing the chase, as the foam-
ing rather increased as our trip was prolonged, showing the necessity
of a new supply of fresh water for the boilers, which are so constructed
as to preclude the use of salt water beyond a very limited timetwo
or three days. I am satisfied she is a smart boat in smooth water, the
foaming once stopped.
	Trusting my course will meet with your approbation, 1 have the
honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
PEN. G. WATMOUGH,
Acting Lieutenant, Commanding.
	Flag-Officer S. F. Du PONT,
Commanding South Atlantic Blockading Squadron.



Letter from U. S. consul at Paramaribo to commanding officer of any United
States ship of war, giving information of C. S. S. Sumter.

U.	S. CONSULATE, PORT OF PARAMARIBO,
October 22, 1861.
	SIR:	I beg to inform you that the rebel steamer Sumter was seen off
the Marowyne [Maronil River on the 18th instant.
	The U. S. S. Iroquois arrived here on the 19th and left next day in
pursuit of the Sumter. She will retnrn here for coals. I will also add
that the Sumter has a rendezvous at a small uninhabited island near
Cura~ao, called Orchilla, latitude 110 48 north, longitude 660 12 west.
I am, your most obedient servant,
HENRY SAWYTI~R,
U.	S. Consul.
	COMMANDER OF ANY U. S. SHIP OF WAR.




Letter from consul at. St. Thomas, West Indies, to Secretary of the Navy,
presenting the need of frequent visits of United States war vessels to
those islands.

CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
At St. Thomas, October 22, 1861.
	SIR:	I beg leave to inform you of the safe arrival on yesterday, per
schooner B. C. Scribner, from Philadelphia, of ~OO tons of coal for the
use of the U. S. Navy.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

	In this connection I beg leave to call your attention to a dispatch
forwarded to you from Kingston, Jamaica, by Captain Scott, of the U.
S. S. Keystone State, and to refer you to Captain Wilkes, of the San
Jacinto, and Commander Porter, of the Powhatan, who will be able to
give you full information respecting the importance of the presence of
one of our steamers in these waters every two or three weeks. The
steamers that have been in search of the Sumter have done incalculable
good by calling at various points in the Windward Islands and on th

Page 119

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION	I t9

Spanish Main. May I beg the favor of a reply at your earliest conven-
ience ~ You may command my services in any manner in which they
may be useful to the Department.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOHN T. EDGAR U
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES	Consul.
Secretary of Navy, Washington.



Report of Captain Wilkes, U. S. Navy, of cruise in search of C. S. S.
Sumter, enclosing orders given to Commander Palmer on same subject.

U.	S. STEAMER SAN JAcINTO7
Cienfuegos, Cuba, October 24, 1861.
	SIR: I wrote you a short dispatch* on my arrival here yesterday,
giving you an outline of the services this ship has performed since I
took command of her, and informed you of the meeting at St. Thomas
with the Powha tan and Iroquois, then iii search of the Sumter.
	Having gained reliable information of the &#38; mter but a few days
before, from a vessel that had been boarded, I instructed Commander
Palmer to continue his cruise in search of her, and enclose you a copy
of a memorandum I sent Commander Palmer of my views, which will
infr)rm you relative to that vessel.
	The search recommended by the Department for the iroquois I have
taken up, and visited the Windward Passage, Jamaica, Grand Cay-
man. Boca Grande and this place, and the neighboring sea. The Pow-
hatam Look a more southern route to join the squadron oii the southeru
coast. We left St. Thomas the same day and thus swept dowu through
the Caribbean Sea. I have obtained no information of the Sumter
since I left St. Thomas. Everything is quiet and no vessels have been
molested in their peaceful commerce.
	Onr arrival in the United States will not much exceed the time if I
had gone direct from St. Thomas, and, although I was very desirous to
return with her at the earliest possible day, I deemed it important that
the points touched at should be visited and information obtained. I
shall leave this port as soon as II have taken in some coal and had the
machinery overhauled and put in condition for a few weeks longer
service. In the early part of next week, by the 28th probably, I shall
be at the Havana, where, I am informed, the presence of an armed
vessel is required.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
	Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosure.]

U.	S. S. SAN JACINTO,
St. Thomas, October 13, 1861.
	M~ DEAR SIR: Without wishing to point out to you any special
directions, I suppose it may be satisfactory to you to receive a general
outline of my views as to the course I think may bring you in view of
the Sumter.

Not found

Page 120

120	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
-	-41
	1.	Her position six days since was longitude 470 25 W., latitude 90
33 N., a position directly in the route of the homeward-bound vessels.
She will probably maintain this position on a parallelogram about 300
miles by 400 N.N.E. and W.S.W. and which is about 500 miles N.N. W. of
Maranham. The Sumter has been out at sea twenty-eight days and
probably will return to Maranham for coal before the 20th of this month.
Your object should be to reach the locality as soou as possible, 1,000
miles from here.
	2.	At Maranham you will learn of her whereabouts, and when she is
expected, through Mr. Oliver and our consul. I do not believe the
Sumter will be able to coal there, and suppose she will return by way
of Trinidad under sail outside the reefs.
	3.	Should you learn that she had coaled and gone to the southward
and westward, I would advise following her, and use every endeavor,
notwithstanding the time it may take, to hunt her down, as her capture
is of great moment to our commercial interests.
	4.	If you fall in with the Keystone State you will arrange with her to
visit all places where there is any likelihood of your falling in with this
pirate, and in case iI~ should be deemed necessary you ought to follow
the Sumter as far as Rio.
	5.	Well knowing you will do all in your power to effect the object of
her capture, I may add that I shall coniinnnicate, on my arrival at home,
with the honorable Secretary of the Navy, and the advice I have given
you verbally and contained in this note.
Yery truly, yours, etc.,
CHARLES WILKES,
Captain.
Commander JAS. S. PALMER, U. S. N.,
Commanding Steamer Iroquois.

	P.	5.The three sheets of charts of the coast of Brazil have been
sent you.




Report of elommander Woodhull, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. iJon.
necticut, of cruise in search of C. S. S. ATashviUe.

U.	5. 5. CONNECTICUT,
October 24, 1861.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report my return to this port, having exe-
cuted the orders received from Flag-Officer Breese, a copy * of which I
enclose. I left the navy yard Wednesday evening at 10 oclock and
arrived on Saturday evening at Bermuda, making the passage in sixty-
eight hours. As it was quite too late to cross the reef I did not arrive
at the anchorage in Grassy Bay till the next morning. I regret to say
that nothing could be heard of the rebel steamer Nashville, nor indeed
had there been any steamer from the United States at the island fbr
the last six months. I only commnnicated my business to the U. S.
consul, and made the excuse for entering the harbor the necessity I was
under of overhauling the engine, which, by the way, worked very
badly from some cause or other. I remained at anchor all Sunday, and
up to 2 oclock Monday, the 21st, which time was occupied in a general
* For enclosure, see p. 116

Page 121

OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSUNION.	121

overhaul of the engine. We found some four springs that confiuie the
packing of the piston broken, which had to be renewed before it would
have been safe to continue my voyage. We left the reef at 4 p. in. of
the 21st and arrived at this port at 12 m. to-day. We experienced very
bad weather on the return trip. The steamer behaved well aiid is an
admirable sea boat. I received every atteiition and courtesy froni the
authorities of the island; I was called upon by the governor and by
the captain commanding the naval establishment who was in
profuse
his offers of assistance, etc., which I am happy to say was not on my
part required. I fiuid the government officials very friendly in their
views, and especially favorable to the Government of the United States.
They expressed strongly their sympathies and wishes that the rebellion
would be successfully overcome. Aside from these personages, I under-
stand that at least two-thirds of the inhabitants of the islands are out-
and-out sympathizers with the so-called Southein Confederacy. The
reasons for this, when it is considered that all their little trade is with
the North, I could not discover. CaptainHutton, R. N., commandant of
the navy yard, informed me that orders had been given to all the Gov-
ernment pilots not to pilot privateers into the harbor, nor give them aid
or comfort in any way.
	I take pleasure in informing the Departmneimt of tIme good health of
the officers and crew of this steamer.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, N. ~TOODHULL,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. (1.




Statement made by master of brig Granada of the capture of his vesset by
the privateer Sallie.

NEW YORK, October 24, 18G1.
	DEAR SIR: I sailed from Nuevitas, Cuba, October 3, master of the
brig Granada, of Portland, Me., bound for New York. On the night of
the 12th instant, in latitude 330, longitude 710, I fell in with and was
taken possession of by the privateer Sallie, Captain Lebby, three days
out from Charleston. Part of my crew and myself were taken on board
the l)rivateer, and from her transferred (three days after) to the British
schooner Greyhound. We arrived at New York to-day.
	The captain of the privateer informed me he came out of Charleston
in the daytime without any difficulty, and that the l)rivateers Dixie
and Beauregard were fitting out there and would be ready for sea in a
few days. The Sallie sailed S.E. after leaving us, in search of coiThe
vessels from Itio.
	By the loss of my vessel I have lost my all, and am thrown out of
employment. I am most aiixious to serve my country in the Navy as
sailing-master, for which situation 1 think I am capable, having been
mate and master of a vessel nine years.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
A.	C. PETTENGILL.

Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy

Page 122

122	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Commander Palmer, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Iro-
quois, of cruise in search of C. S. S. Sumter.


U.	S. S. IIROQUOIS,
Paramaribo, Surinam, Dutch Guiana, October 25, 1861.
	SIR:	I wrote to the Department from Barbados by the U. S. S.
Mystic.
	There were vague rumors of the Sumter being among the Grena-
dines when I left. I accordingly proceeded thither, running through
these islets and into St. George, Grenada, and finding she had not beeu
in this quarter, proceeded on to Trinidad. The details of a fruitless
search cau not be very interesting. But at Trinidad, where the Sumter
had coaled and obtained supplies, I was anxious to learn the attitude
of the British Government towards the piratical vessels of the Southern
States. I had scarcely anchored, when I observed the governor
intended treating me with marked civility, sending his aidede-camp
on board, b egging I would give him a day for an entertainment, etc.
When I called upon him he alluded incidentally to the Samters having
been a visitor at this port, saying that the instructions from his Gov-
ernment were to treat the contending parties in the United States
with impartiality. I offered no argument, but received his communi-
cation in silence. The captain of the English frigate Cadmus, at Trini-
dad, at this time told me he had been sent for from Grenada, upon the
Sumters arrival at Trinidad, and sent an officer on board of her to exam-
me the commission under which her commander sailed, and upon find-
ing it was all right, the commission being that of commander in the C. S.
Navy, signed by Jeff. Davis as President, said he could not interfere with
her. Upon my saying, Then your Government recognizes the South-
ern Confederacy ? he replied, 0, no, not at all, only as a party having
belligerent rights ; adding,  Such are my instructions from my
admiral, and a copy of the Confederate flag has been sent me that J
may know it. I was not aware that England had assumed this posi-
tion, though possibly it may be no news to the Government. I was
now satisfied that the Sumter had gone to the coast of Brazil, and, not
feeling justified by my orders to pursue her thither, I determined to
return to Hampton Roads.
	I accordingly left for St. Thomas where n	, d the
Powhatan; she had followed the , pon my arrival I foun
Sumter down as far as Maranham and
there given up the pursuit. The San Jacinto arrived the following day,
and on that afternoon arrived also an English brig, who informed us
that she had been bearded by the Sumter only six days previous, in
latitude 90, longitnde 470~ where he was apparently cruising to inter-
cept vessels to and from Rio de Janeiro. Upomi consulting Captain
Wilkes we both decided it was my duty to go again in pursuit of her.
I accordingly left that night, the 12th of October, hoping the weather
would prove favorable to allow me to reach that longitude and proceed
on to Maranham, where we expected she would return again to coal.
But I had scarcely got through the islands when I encountered heavy
weather from the southeast, and I soon found that I was exhausting
my coals to but little purpose agaimnt a heavy head sea, and deter-
mined upon keeping away for Surinam, imitending to coal there and run
on down the coast in the hope of intercepting her before she returned
to Maranham. Upomi my arrival at Paramaribo, which is the capital,
some 20 miles up the shallow river of Surinam, I was just prepared to
receive my coal when a French packet arrived, saying she had spoken
a French brig off Cayenne who said he had been spoken by the Sumte

Page 123

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	123

the day before. The conjecture was that she was bound again to this
port, so I immediately got underway, having coal enough left for
perhaps a couple of days cruise, and steamed down the river over the
mud ~fiats, which frequently impeded my progress, expecting that I might
possibly meet her in the river, where I should have regretted to have
been compelled to attack her among the habitable plantations which
cover its banks. I, however, saw nothing of her; went up to windward
about 100 miles, where, some 30 miles up a river, I knew the French
brig to be.
	I communicated with her by boat; found she had been at Maranham
when the Sumter was there, and therefore knew her well; said she was
satisfied it was the Sumter which had gone to the westward four days
ago. I consequently returned to Paramaribo; am now filliiig up my
coal, which I am obliged to do by driblets, getting it from the planta.
tions through the consul. I am in hopes to get off by the day after
to-morrow.
	The Sumter has now, in my judgment, though she baffles all conjec.
ture, gone either to Trinidad again or to some of the small islands in
the neighborhood of Cura~ao, where I have heard she has before
refitted.
	I am happy to say that this ship continues thus far tolerably healthy,
though it is a sickly season and we are on a sickly coast, and the crew
more or less exhausted by constant heat and constant steaming, but if
we fall in with the Sumter we shall be rewarded for all our toil. I have
but a months provision left, and if not immediately on the track of the
Sumter I shall feel obliged to abandon the pursuit and return.
	1 have heard nothing of the Keystone State for a long period; the
consul tells me that she left this for Tobago about five or six weeks
ago. The State Department has perhaps better and later information
through the consuls than can the Navy Department [have] through us.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAS. S. PALMER,
Commander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.




Letter from E. L. Corning, esq., to Secretary of the Navy, seeking informa-
tion regarding depredations of C. S. S. Sumter on coast of Brazil.

NEW YORK, October 28, 1861.
	SIR: I am extensively engaged in the trade hence to Para and
Maranham (Brazil), and have received no direct intelligence from either
of those ports for nearly two months past, owing, as I supposed, to the
presence of the privateer Sumter in their vicinity, preventing the egress
thence of my vessels bound to this port, which is confirmed by pub-
lished reports this morning from U. S. S. Powhatan. I beg leave to
enquire if that report is correct, also if you have any further particu-
lars relating to her cruise on that coast. Did she go to Para; and if
so, what American vessels were there l Having four vessels absent,
bonnd to the aforesaid ports, my anxiety to hear from that quarter
must be my excuse for troubling you on the subject. I hope that the
.Powhatan will return thither without delay, and if accompanied b

Page 124

124	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

two other steamers they would give adequate protection to our valuable
commerce there, which we greatly need at this time.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
E.	L. CORNING.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington City.

[Endorsement.]

	Answer.Lieutenant Porters letters, alluded to in the extract from
the Tribune, did not contain particular allusions to other vessels than
the Maria, though the fact that others were spoken was mentioned,
The Powhatan did not go to Para.


Report from commandant navy yard, New York, of movements of

Messrs. Mason and Slidell and C. S. S. Nashville.

NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, October 80, 1861.

	SIR: I am informed by a gentleman sent by Spofford &#38; Tileston,
whose steamer has just arrived from Havana, that Mason and Slidell,
with their fainihes, arrived there on the 22d or 23d instant in the Con-
federate steamer Gordon, now called tIle Theodora, from Charleston.
That the captain of the Theodora (Thos. Lockwood) stated he had run
the blockade from Charleston twenty-seven times. She is 700 tons.
	He informed fmej that the Nashville, 1,200 tons, and Isabel, 1,100, are
both at Charleston, heavily armed.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
H.	PAULDING, Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Order from the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Steedman, U. S.
LVavy, commanding U. S. S. Bienville, to search for vessels.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, October 30, 1861.
	SIR: You will report at once to Flag-Officer Du Pont, and after so
reporting, proceed with all dispatch to the West Indies, in search of
the vessels mentioned in the inclosed copy of telegram.*
Respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES.
	Commander C. STEEDMAN,
Commanding U. S. S. Bienville.


Report of Commander Marchand, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. James
Adger, of search for C. S. S. Nasheille.

U.	S. S. JAMES ADGER,
Qucenstown, Ireland, October 30, 1861.
	SIR: In obedience to the order of Flag-Officer Du Pont, this ship left
New York at 2:30 oclock on the morning of the 10th instant in pursuit
* Not found

Page 125

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	125

of the steamer Nashville, having Messrs. Mason and Slidell, commis-
sioners from the Confederate States to England and France, on board.
	Learning from the engineers of the ship, all of whom are familiar with
the Nashville and one of whom left her after she had been seized by the
authorities at Charleston, that the Nashville was a faster steamer than
the James Adger, I determined to take the shortest conrse and if possible
intercept her at the entrance of the English Channel or off Brest.
	Upon starting, the utmost economy was used in the consumption of
fuel consistent with speed, and good progress was made until oii the
southern part of the Newfoundland Bank we were overtaken by a suc-
cession of gales. On the 22d, just in the heaviest of one of the gales,
the sea carried away the circular battens and sheathing from the aft
part of the starboard wheelhouse and started the port one, carried away
several of the battens from the guards, and all the water closets.
About the same time the bulwarks at the forward part of the guards
were partially stove in, and the iron ash shute made useless for a time.
A considerable leak also took place, rendering the officers room almost
uninhabitable, which upon examination was found to proceed from the
lower side of the sheer plank on both sides, at the after guards, a portion
of which was reported as never having been calked. That portion of
the wrecked covering of the wheelhouse saved showed that the battens
of the wheelliouses and guards, the sheathing of the wheelhouses and
bulwarks, were in a state of decay and had been repeatedly ii ailed.
	By that accident the ship has not otherwise been injured, but the
covering of the wheelhouse being off, sheets of water are flying over
the quarter-deck except when the wind is in a particular direction,
rendering the loading of the after guns almost impossible without
wetting the powder.
	At the time I joined the ship, at the New York navy yard, the
authorities reported that there were 324 tons of coal on board, to which
subsequently was added 9 tons, in aking, as I had every reason to
believe, 333 tons in the ship at the time of leaving New York, the
bunkers having been so artfully stowed as to preclude entrance to
ascertain if they were entirely filled; but on the 25th, just when 900
miles w~st of Lands End, England, I was startled by the intelligence
that the bunkers had not been entirely filled and there was only 89
tons on board, when there should have been 153 tons as
tion had been only 180 tons to that time.	, the consump-
This discovery induced me to vary from my preconcerted plan and
run for a point near Cape Clear, Ireland, that in the event of the fuel
becoming exhausted a supply could readily be procured at Queen stown,
our average consumption of fuel being about 18 tons a day under fair
steam, whilst the required quantity for full steam would be from 27 to
30 tons per day.
	On the morning of the 25th, when the magazine was opened, I was
further startled with the information that the water was several inches
deep on the floor of the magazine, occasioned by a leak in the leaden
suction pipe for the forward force pump, which was without boxing or
sheathing along the ceiling of the magazine when the latter was
arranged at the New York navy yard.
	The powder tanks are of wood, and, not sufficient shelving to place
them, a portion was stowed on the floor of the magazine by the ord-
nance officer of the yard, whose duty it is to make the stowage. Upon
examination it was found that nearly all the latter and the powder in
the tanks under the leak, amounting to 348 pounds, was educed nearly
to the consistency of mortar, which was thrown overboard. By thor

Page 126

126	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

oughly wiping and a plentiful use of charcoal and chloride of lime, I
believe the moisture is removed and that the balance of powder ou
board, amounting to 4,2064 pounds, is still fit for use. To stop the leak
in the magazine it became necessary to turn off the stopcock to the
suction pipe; the result is the loss of the forward force pump in the
event of fire.
	On the morning of the 27th instant it was found that the bulls eye
to give light to the magazine from the light room was cracked through-
out its thickness in two places, most probably by the working of the
bulkhead. The cracks have not opened, apparently, and may answer
until our return to the United States.
	Yesterday, on reaching the meridian of Cape Clear and finding the
fuel nearly exhausted, I ran for this place and arrived at 5 oclock this
morning, after a passage of fourteen days and having but 7 tons of
coal on board.
	On examination of the newspapers, and consultation with the U. S.
consul, I can not hear that the Nashville has yet reached a European
port, and in the further execution of the discretionary orders given
me, I will cruise for a few days at the entrance to the English Channel
and off the coast of Brest (as by that time, in all probability, she will
have reached some port in Europe), and then run for Southampton to fill
with coal, to have some temporary repairs made to the wheelhouse and
guards, and during the interval communicate with our minister at London
to ascertain the character that the Nashville, on her arrival in Europe,
has or will assume, and if belligerent, I must decide, until further orders
arrive from you, whether to watch her or return to the United States.
I most sincerely hope, sir, that the course I have pursued and the plan
in view above mentioned will meet your approbation.
	It is designed to take in 75 tons of coal, and I expect to leave during
the latter part of this afternoon, the repairs to the wheelhouses,
guards etc., not being deemed necessary in our present urgent busi-
ness. The funds now in the hands of the paymaster are ample tbr the
fuel and pilotage here, but in the next port we will be compelled to
draw upon the Navy Department.
	Herewith I send copies of Flag-Officei Du Ponts instructions, report
of a survey upon the magazine and powder, and the acting chief eu4-
neers report as to the amount of coal on board at the time of our leav-
ing New York.
I am, sir, very resj)ectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MARCITAND,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Eytinge,
U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp, to proceed to
sea under sealed orders.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 1, 1861.
	SIR: As soon as the U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp, under your comm and,
is in all respects ready for a cruise you will proceed with her to sea.
Enclosed herewith are sealed instructions, which you will open after the
Shepherd Knapp is at sea, and be governed thereby. Transmit to th

Page 127

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	127

I)epartment before sailing a muster roll of your vessel, and a separate
list of her officers.
I am, respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES.
	Acting Volunteer Lieutenant H. S. EYTINGE,
Commanding U. S. Ship Shepherd Knapp.
[Enclosure.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 1, 1861.
	SIR: Proceed with the U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp, under your com-
mand, southward, and take the track of merchant vessels bound to
and from the West Indies, going as far eastward as the Leeward
Islands, and cruise until it is necessary for you to return to New York
for stores. You will not enter any port during your cruise until it
becomes actually necessary. Your object is to capture or destroy the
vessels of the rebels and protect legitimate commerce of your OWII flag.
In the examination of vessels at sea you will be careful to regard the
rights of neutrals. You will exercise your crew at the great guns,
and occasionally with shot and shell. The U. S. bark Win. U. Anderson
is now eml)loyed under similar instructions, and you will take care not
to cruise in company with her. Whenever an opportunity presents
itseif send an abstract of your cruise to the Department.
1 am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Volnuteer Lieutenant H. S. EYTINGE,
Commanding U. S. Ship Shepherd Knapp, New York.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Ridgely, U. S. 1Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Santiago de Cuba, to proceed to Havana, Cuba,
to protect commerce and suppress traffic of the insurgents.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 2, 1861.
	SIR: In view of the means resorted to, and the reported increasing
intercourse between the rebel States and the island of Cuba, it has
become a matter of imperative necessity that a war steamer should be
stationed at or near Havana to protect legitimate commerce and sup-
press communication and traffic with or by the insurgents.
	You will therefore proceed with the Santiago de Cuba to Havana and
put yourself in communication with the consul-general, who will from
tinme to time inform you in regard to the condition of affairs at that
place and vicinity. On the information so received, and the advice of
	your	observations	iiitp11io~n~
that officer with	own	and the	~ you may
gather, you must act, arid, as great responsibility will devolve on you,
good judgment, as well as great decision, must be exercised. Of course
it will be the object and study of the insurgents and those who are act-
ing in concert with them to deceive you and elude your vigilance, and
it will be your aim to counteract and defeat them. Sailing, as they do
at times, under false colors, and assuming false pretenses, it may be
difficult to always detect them, and, in the honest and faithful discharge
of your duty, errors may be committed. When this is the case, amid a
wrong shall have been done, the amende honorable and due restitution
will be made. You will avoid as far as possible giving offense to the
authorities of Cuba, will respect the rights of neutrals, while maintain.
ing our own, and bearing in mind the great object delegated to You

Page 128

128	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

that of interrupting and destroying effectually and entirely all commu.
nication between the rebels and others, you will keep vigilant watch on
all suspicious vessels and seize, without hesitation, such as are known
to be hostile, or which you have good grounds for believing to be engaged
in schemes to aid the insurgents or defeat the measures and policy of
the Government. By every opportunity you will report to the Depart-
ment direct.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES.
Commander DANIEL B. IRIDGELY,
Commanding U. S. S. Santiago de Cuba, New York.


Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Rogers, U. S. Navy, commanding
U.	S. bark W. U. Anderson, of cruise in search of privateers near
Bermuda, West Indies.
U.	S. BARK W. G. ANDERSON,
Lat. 26~ 25 N., Long. 630 29 W., November 4, 1861.
SIR:	I have the honor to inclose the abstract log* of the U. S. bark
W. G. Anderson, to date.
Agreeably to your instructions, we have been cruising in the neigh-
borhood of the island of Bermuda the past fifteen or sixteen days but
without seeing any suspicious vessels. We have boarded and spoken
several, none of whom, however, reported either seeing or hearing of
any. Being satisfied of the improbability of there being privateers in
the above neighborhood, 1 am now standing to the southward, with the
intention of carrying out, to the best of my ability, your further orders,
and shall hope to be fortunate enough to fall iii with some Sonthern
vessels. The W. U. Anderson performs well, is stanch and strong,
and carries her battery finely. She is, however, much in need of bal-
last, and had she 75 tons more would be all that could be desired.
	We had, on sailing, water for eighty-five days, and shall therefore
touch at St. Thomas as early as December 25.
I have the honor to be, respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. C. ROGERS,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy of the United States.


Report of Co~nmander Miarchand, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. James
Adger, of cruise in search of C. S. S. Nashville.

U.	S. S. JAMES ADGER,
Southampton, England, November 6, 1861.
	SIR:	Oii the 30th ultimo, from Quecustown, Ireland, I had the honor
to advise you of this vessels arrival, and that the want of fuel com-
pelled me to go there. During that day we succeeded in obtaining 72
tons of coal, and the same evening put to sea. For two and a half
days, I ran backward and forward between the Scilly Islands and the
French coast, off Brest, in search of the steamer Nashville. In the
meantime a heavy gale from the northwest set in, and for the last ten
hours of that time the ship was unmanageable for want of ballast,
except when head or stem to the wind. When in any other position

Omitted as unimportant

Page 129

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
129

she would careen to such an extent as almost to prevent the wheels
from turning and bringing a dangerous strain upon the engine.
	On the morning of the 2d instant, finding the gale unabating and
the ship nufit for pursuit or action, for want of ballast (haviiig then
50 toiis of coal on board), I most reluctantly ran for the nearest port
directly to wiiidward to obtain an additional quantity of coal to act as
ballast, and put into Falmouth Harbor. The extreme inclemency of
the weather prevented coaling fast, and after working throughont the
night, succeeded in receiving 58 tons, with which I went to sea at day-
light in the morning of the 3d instant, with some hope of intercepting
the Nashville, as the London Times of the I st instant had not chroni-
cled her arrival in a European port.
	From the time of leaving Falmouth until towards noon yesterday,
we were eml)loyed in coaling and cruising at the entrance to the En g -
lish Channel and oft the coast of France, about Brest, in vain seavch-
ing for the Nashville amongst the passing steamers. The Nashville had
then been, if at all, twenty-three and a half days out of Charleston, an
unpreceden ted time for a fast steamer, whilst the James Adgek-, a slower
one, was only fourteen days in crossing the Atlantic. 1 concluded she
must have made a European port, and if a French or English one,
might be again leaving. I continued cruising slowly np the English
Chaminel for this place, for infbrmation or to take in fuel, have some
temporary repairs made to our damaged wheelbouses, etc., and com-
nmnnicate with our minister at London in relation to my future course.
	We arrived this morning, and I read in the London Times of to-day
that, by the most recent information froni the United States, Messrs.
Mason and Slidell, the Confederate commissioners to England and
France, had landed at Cardenas, in Cuba; hence there is no further
necessity for this ship to cruise here to intercept the Nashville, and I
will immediately, in obedience to Flag-Officer Du Ponts order, proceed
to the Chesapeake Bay and report to the flag-officer there for further
orders. It will reqnire about four days to make the necessary repairs
to the engine and its appendages, and during that time can coal ship
and repair the wheelhouse, etc.
 As mentioned in my communication of the 30th ultimo, it will be nec-
essary to draw upon the Navy Department for noney to meet these
expelises, and as in our hurried departure from New York imo authority
was given the paymaster to draw, I will direct him to proceed to Lon-
don and make arrangements with the Navy agent for funds.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your ohedient servant,
	J. B. NARcIHAND,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander.
8eeretary of the Navy.


The Trent affair, November 8, 1861.

Report of Captain Wilkes, U. S. Navy, of capture of Messrs. Mason and Slidell, Confederate
commissioners on board the British mail steamer Trent, with enclosures.

U.	S. S. SAN JACINTO, November 15, 1861.
	SIR: I have written toyon relative to the movements of this ship from
Cienfuegos, on the south coast of Cuba.
	There I learned that Messrs. Slidell and Mason had landed on Cuba,
and had reached the Havana from Charleston. I took in some 60 tons
of coal and left with all dispatch on the 26th October to intercept the
123A

Page 130

130	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

return of the Theodora, but on my arrival at The Havannah on the 31st
I found she had departed on her return, and that Messrs. Slidell and
Mason, with their secretaries and families, were there and would depart
on the 7th of the month in the English steamer Trent for St. Thomas,
on their way to England.
	I made up my mind to fill up with coal and leave the port as soon as
possible, to await at a suitable position on the route of the steamer to
St. Thomas to intercept her and take them out.
	On the afternoon of the 2d I left The Havannah, in continuation of my
cruise after the Sumter on the north side of Cuba. The next day, when
about to board a French brig, she ran into us on the starboard side at
the main chains and carried away her bowsprit and foretopmast, and
sufik~red other damages. I inclose you herewith the reports of the offi-
cems who witnessed the accident. 1 do not feel that any blame is due to
the officer in charge of this ship at the time the ship was run into, and
the brig was so close when it was seen probable she would do so. that
even with the power of steam, lying motionless as we were, we could not
avoid it; it seemed as if designed.
	I at once took her in tow, and put an officer on board with a party to
repair her damages. This was effected before night, but I kept her in
tow till we were up with The llavannah and ran within about 8 miles
of the light, the wind blowing directly fair for her to reach port.
	I then went over to Key West in hopes of finding the Powhatan or
some other steamer to accompany me to the Bahama Channel, to make
it impossible for the steamer in which Messrs. Slidell and Mason were
to embark to escape either in the night or day. The Powhatan had
left but the day before, and I was therefore disappointed and obliged
to rely upon the vigilance of the officers and crew of this ship, and
proceeded the next morning to the north side of the island of Cuba,
communicated with Sagua la Grande on the 4th, hoping to receive a
telegraphic communication from Mr. Shufeldt, our consul-general, giv-
ing me the time of the departure of the steamer.
	In this, also, I was disappointed, and i-an to the eastward some 90
miles, where the old Bahama Channel cormtracts to the width of 15
miles, some 240 miles from The llavannah, and in sight of the Paredon
Grande light-house. There we cruised until time morning of the 8th,
awaiting the steamer, believing that if she left at the usual time she
must pass us about 110011 of the 8th, and we could not possibly miss
her. At 11:40 a. in., on the 8th, her smoke was first seen; at 12 m. our
position was to the westward of the entrance into the narrowest part
of the channel and about 9 miles northeast from the light-house of Par-
edon Grande, the nearest point of Cuba to us.
	We were all prepared for her, beat to quarters, and orders were given
to Lieutenant D. M. Fairfax to have two boats manned amid armed to
board her and make Messrs. Slidell, Mason, Eustis, and Macfarland
prisoners, and send them immediately on board. (A copy of this order
to him is herewith enclosed.)
	The steamer approached and hoisted English colors. Our ensign
was hoisted, and a shot was fired across her bow; she maintained her
speed and showed no disposition to heave to; then a shell was flied
across her bow, which brought her to. I hailed that I intended to
send a boat on board, and Lieutenant Fairfax with the second cutter
of this ship was dispatched. He met with some difficulty, and remain-
ing on board the steamer with a part of the boats crew, sent her back
to request more assistance. The captain of the steamer having declined
to show his papers and passenger list, a force became necessary t

Page 131

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	131

search her. Lieutenant James A. Greer was at once dispatched in the
third cutter, also manned and armed.
	Messrs. Slidell, Mason, Eustis, and Macfarland were recognized and
told they were required to go on board this ship; this they objected to,
until an overpowering force compelled them. Much persuasion ~vas
used and a little force, and at about 2 oclock they were brought on
board tins ship and received by me. Two other boats were then sent
to expedite the removal of their baggage and some stores, when the
steamer, which proved to be the Trent, was suffered to proceed ou
her route to the eastward, and at 3 :~O p. m. we bore away to the north-
ward and westward. The whole time employed was two hours thirteen
minutes. I enclose you the statements of such officers who boarded the
Trent relative to the facts, and also an extract from the log book of
this ship.
	It was my determination to have taken possession of the Trent and
sent her to Key West as a prize, for resisting the search and cai--
rying these passengers, whose character and objects were well known
to the captain, but the reduced number of my officers and crew, and
the large nuniber of passengers on board bound to Europe who would
be put to great inconvenience, decided me to allow them to proceed.
	Finding the families of Messrs. Slidell and Eustis on board, I ten-
dered them the offer of my cabin for their accommodation to accom-
pany their husbands; this they declined, however, and proceeded in the
Trent.
	Before closing this dispatch I would bring to your notice the noto-
rious action of her Britannic Majestys subjects, the con~ul-gcneral of
Cuba and those on board the Trent, in (loing everything to ai(l and
aI)et the escape of these four persons and endeavoring to conceal their
persons on board. No passports or papers of any description were
in possession of them from the Federal Government, and for thi
and other reasons which will readily occur to you I made them my
prisoners, and shall retain them on board here until I hear from you
what disposition is to be made of them.
	I can not close this report without bearing testimony to the admirable
manner iii which all the officers and men of this ship performed their
duties, an(l the cordial manner in which they carried out my orders.
To Lieutenant Fairfax I beg leave to call your particular attention
for the I)raiseworthy manner in which he executed the delicate duties
with which he was intrusted; it met and has received my warmest
thanks.
	After leaving the north side o~ Cuba I ran through the Santaren
Passage and up the coast from off St. Augustine to Charleston, and
regretted being too late to take a part in the expedition to Port Royal.
	I enclose herewith a communication I received from Messrs. Slidell,
Mason, Eustis, and Mcfarland, with my answer.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Captain.
HON. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
[EncLosure 1.]

U.	S. S. SAN JACINTO,
At AS1ea, November 8, 1861.
	SIR: You will have the second and third cutters of this ship fully
manned and armed, and be in all respects prepared to board the
steamer Trent, now hove to under our guns. On boarding her you wil

Page 132

132	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

demand the papers of the steamer, her clearance from Iiavaiia, with
the list of passengers and crew. Should Mr. Mason, Mr. Slidell, Mr.
Enstis, and Mr. Macfarland be on board, you will make them prisoners
and sen(l them on board this ship immediately, and take possessiou of
her as a prize. I do not deem it will be necessary to use force, that the
prisoners will have the good sense to avoid auy necessity for using it,
but if they should, they mnst be made to understand that it is their
own fault. They must be brought on board.
	All trunks, cases, packages, and bags belonging to them you will
take possession of, and send on board this ship. Any dispatches
found on the persons of the prisoners, or in possession of those on
board the steamer, will be taken possession of also, examined, and
retained if necessary.
	I have understood that the families of these gentlemen may be with
them; if so, I beg you will offer some of them, iii my name, a passage in
this ship to the United States; and that all the attention and coniforts we
can command are tendered them, and will be placed in their service. In
the event of their acceptance, should there be anything which the cap-
tain of the steamer can spare to increase tIme comforts in the way of
necessaries or stores of which a war vessel is deficient you will ~Aease
to procure them. The amount will be paid for by the paymaster.
	Lieutenant James A. Greer will take charge of the third cutter, which
accompanies you, and assist you in these duties. I trust that all those
under your command, in executing this important and delicate duty,
will conduct themselves with all the delicacy and kindness which
becomes the character of our naval service.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Captain.
	Lieutenant D. M. FAIRFAX, U. S. Navy,
Executive Officer, San Jacinto.

[Enclosure 2.1


COPY FROM THE LOG BOOK OF THE U. S. S. SAN JACINTO, COM
MANDED BY CAPTAIN CHARLES WILKES, U. S. NAVY.

AT SEA, Friday, November 8, 1861.
	From 8 a. m. to meridian, as per columns.Lying to oft Paredon
Lights. At 10:30 a bark in sight to the eastward and a schooner to
the northward. At 11:40 made out a steamer to the westward.
	From meridian to 4p. m.Moderate breezes from the northward and
eastward, and pleasant. At 1? :55 beat to quarters, hoisted the colors,
and loaded the guns. At 1:05 fired a shot across the bows of the
steamer in sight showing English colors. At 1:17 the steamer close on
us, and not stopping, fired another shot across her bows, at which she
stopped. Hailed her, and at 1 :20 Lieutenant Fairfax, in the second
cutter, with an armed crew, boarded the vessel. At 1:35 sent Lieuten-
ant Greer in the third cutter to the assistance of Mr. Fairfax. At 2
he returned, bringing Messrs. Slidell, Mason, Eustis, and Macfarl and,
and then returned to the steamer. Received on board the baggage of
the above gentlemen, and some stores for their use. Ran to leeward of
the steamer. At 3:20 she stood to the eastward. At 3:30 hoisted up
our boats and stood to the northward and westward.
K.	R. BREESE,
[Lieutenant, U. S. N

Page 133

OPERATIONS OF	THE CRUISERSUNION. 133
[Enclosure 3.]

U.	S. S. SAN JACINTO,
At &#38; a, Novernber 11, 1861.
	GENTLEMEN: You will report to me, in writing, all the facts which
transpired under your observation on board the mail steamer Trent,
bound from Havana to St. Thomas, whilst hove to under our guns, on
the 8th instant, and boarded by you under my orders.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servaiit,
CHARLES WILKES,

	Lieutenant D. M. FAIRFAX,
	Lieutenant JAMES A. GREER,
	Second Assistant Engineer JAS. B. HOUSTON,
	Third Assistant Engineer GEo. W. HALL,
	Paymasters Clerk It. G. SIMPSON,
	Masters Mate CHAS. B. DAHLGREN,
	Boatswain H. P. GRACE, U. S. Navy.

[Enclosure 4]

U.	S. S. SAN JACINTO,
At Sea, November 12, 1861.
	SIR: At 1:20 p. n. on the 8th instant I repaired alongside of the
British mail packet in an armed cutter, accompanied by Mr. Houston,
second assistant engineer, and Mr. Grace, the boatswain.
	I went on board the Trent alone, leaving the two officers in the boat,
with orders to await until it became necessary to show some force. I
was shown up by the first officer to the quarter-deck, where I met the
captain and informed him who I was, asking to see his passenger list.
He declined letting me see it. I then told him that I had information
of Mr. Mason, Mr. Slidell, Mr. Eustis, and Mr. Macfarland having
taken their passage at Havana in the packet to St. Thomas, and would
satisfy myself whether they were on board before allowing his steamer
to proceed. Mr. Slidell, evidently hearing his name mentioned, came
up to me and asked if I wanted to see him. Mr. Mason soon joined us,
and then Mr. Eastis and Mr. Macfar~and, when I made known the
object of my visit. The captain of the Trent opposed anything like a
search of his vessel, nor would he consent to show papers or passenger
list. The four gentlemen above mentioned protested also against my
arresting and sending them to the U. S. steamer near by.
	There was considerable noise among the passengers just about this
time, and that led Mr. Houston and Mr. Grace to repair on board with
some 6 or 8 men, all armed. After several unsuccessful efforts to
persuade Mr. Mason and Mr. Slidell to go with me peaceably, I called
to Mr. Honston andordered him to return to the ship with the informa-
tion that the four gentlemen named in your order of the 8th instant
were on board and force must be applied to take them out of the
packet.
	About three minutes after there was still greater excitement on the
quarter-deck, which brought Mr. Grace with his armed party. I, how-
ever, deemed the presence of any armed men unnecessary and only
calculated to alarm the ladies present and directed Mr. Grace to return
to the lower deck, where he had been since first coming on board. It
must have been less than half aii hour after I boarded the Trent when
the second armed cntter, under Lieutenant Greer, came alongsid

Page 134

134	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.

(only two armed boats being used). He brought in the cutter 8 marines
and 4 machinists in addition to a crew of some 12 men. When the
marines and some armed men had been formed just outside of the main
deck cabin, where these four gentlemen had gone to pack lii) their bag-
gage, II renewed my efforts to induce them to accompany me on board.
Still refusing to accompany me unless force was applied, I called in to
my assistance four or five officers, and first taking hold of Mr. Masons
shoulder, with another officer on the opposite side, I went as far as the
gangway of the steamer and delivered him over to Lieutenant Greer to
be placed in the boat.
	I then returned for Mr. Slidell, who insisted that I must apply con-
siderable force to get him to go with me. Calling in at leastthree officers,
he also was taken in charge and handed over to Mr. Greer. Mr. Mac-
farland and Mr. Eustis, after protesting, went quietly into the boat.
They had been permitted to collect their baggage, but were sent in
advance of it under charge of Lieutenant Greer.
	I gave my personal attention to the luggage, saw it put in a boat and
sent in charge of an officer to the San Jacinto. When Mr. Slidell was
taken prisoner a great deal of noise was made by some of the passen-
gers, which caused Lieutenant Greer to send the marines into the cabin.
They were immediately ordered to return to their former position out-
side. I carried out my purpose without using any force beyond what
appears in this report. The mail agent, who is a retired commander in
the British navy, seemed to have a great deal to say as to the pro-
priety of my course, but I purposely avoided all official intercourse with
him. When I finally was leaving the steamer be made some apology
for his rude conduct and expressed personally his approval of the maii-
ner in which I had carried out my orders. We parted company from
the Trent at 3:20p.m.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
D.	M. FAIRFAX,
Lieutenant and Executive Officer.
	Captain CHARLES WILKES, U. S. Navy,
Commanding San Jacinto.
[Enclosure 5.]


U.	S. S. SAN JACINTO,
At Sea, November 12, 1861.
SIR:	In accordance with your instrnctions I submit the following:
	On November 8,between 1 and 2 oclock p.m., I was ordered by Lieu-
tenant Breese, acting executive officer, to shove off with the third cut-
ter, and to go alongside of the English mail steamer, which was then
lying to under our guns. In the boat with mc were Third Assistant
Engineer Hall, Paymasters Clerk Simpson, Masters Mate Dahlgren,
1 sergeant, 1 corporal, 6 privates of marines, 4 machinists, and the
crew consisting of 13 men, the whole party being well armed.
	When I arrived at the steamer I was met on the guard by Mr. Grace
with a message from Lieutenant Fairfax (who had preceded me on
board) to bring the marines on board and to station them outside of the
cabin, which I ~did; also to keep the spare men on the guard, and to
have the boats crews in readiness to jump on board if needed.
	As soon as the marines were stationed I had the space outside and
forward of the cabin kept clear of passengers, and assumed a position
where I could see Lieutenant Fairfax, who was then engaged in con-
yersation with persons in the cabiii. He shortly came out, and told m

Page 135

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	135

to remain as I was. He then went back into the cabin, and in a few m-
utes returned with Mr. Mason. He had his hand on his shoulder, and I
think Mr. Hall had his on the other one. He transferred Mr. Mason
to me, and I had the third cutter hauled up, into which he got. Shortly
after Mr. Macfarland came out and got into the boat. I think he was
unaccompanied by any of the officers. About this time I heard a good
deal of loud talking in the cabin, and above all I heard a womans
voice. I could not hear what she said.
	Mr. Fairfax appeared to be having an altercation with some one.
There was much confusion created by the passengers and ships officers,
who were making all kinds of disagreeable and contemptuous noises
and remarks.
	Just then Mr. Houston came to me and said he thought there would
be trouble. I told him to ask Mr. Fairfax if I should bring the marines.
He returned with an answer to bring them in. At that time I heard
some one call out, Shoot him. I ordered the marines to come into
the cabin, which they did at quick time. As they advanced the passen-
gers fell back. Mr. Fairfax then ordered the marines to go out of the
cabin, which they did, Mr. Slidell at the same time jumping out of a
window of a stateroom into the cabin, where he was arrested by Mr.
Fairfax, and was then brought by Mr. Hall and Mr. Grace to the boat,
into which he got. Soon after Mr. Eustis caine to the boat accom-
panied by Mr. Fairfax. I then, by his order, took charge of the boat
and conveyed the gentlemen arrested, viz, Messrs. Slidell, Mason,
Macfarland, and Eustis, to the San Jacinto, where I delivered them
over to Captain Wilkes; this was about 2 oclock. I then returned to
the steamer. When I reached her the baggage of the gentlemen was
being brought up and sent to the Safl Jacinto. Soon after Mr. Fairfax
told me to send the marines and spare hands on board, which I did. He
then left me in charge of our party, and went on board the San Jacinto.
About 3 oclock she ran under the Trents stern. 1 was hailed and
directed to come on board, which I did with all excepting Mr. Grace,
Mr. Dahlgren, and Mr. Hall, who came in another boat.
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAMES A. GREER,
Lieutenant.
	Captain C. WILKES,
Commanding San Jacinto.

	P.	S.I desire to add that it was about 1.35 p. m. when I went along-
side the Treat. There were but two armed boats used during the day;
a third boat, the crew of which were unarmed, went alongside during
the detention. When I first went on board with the marines, and at
intervals during my stay, the officers of the steamer made a great many
irritating remarks to each other and the passengers, which were
evidently intended for our benefit.
	Among other things said were, Did your ever hear of such an out-
rage l Marines on board! Why, this looks devilish like mutiny.
These Yankees will have to pay well for this. This is the best thing
in the world for the South. England will open the blockade. We
will have a good chance at them now. Did you ever hear of such a
piratical act s? Why, this is a perfect Bull Run. They would not
have dared to have done it if an English man-of war had been in sight.~~
The mail agent (a man in the uniform of a commander in the royal
navy, I think) was very indignant and talkative, and tried several
times to get me into a discussion of the matter. I told him I was no

Page 136

136	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

there for that purpose. He was very bitter. He told me that the
English squadron would raise the blockade in twenty days after his
report of this outrage (I think he said outrage) got borne; that the
Northerners might as well give it up now, etc. Most ~dl of the officers
of the vessel showed an undisguised hatred for the Northern people
and a sympathy for the Confederates. I will do the captain of the
vessel the justice to say that he acted differently from the rest, being
when I saw him very reserved and dignified.
	The officers and men of our party took no apparent notice of the
remarks that were made, and acted with the greatest forbearance.
	Respectfully,	JAS. A. GREER.

[Enclosure 6.J

U.	S. STEAMER SAN JACINTO,
At sea, Yorember 13, 1861.
	Sin: In obedience to your order of the 11th instaut, I respectfully
report that upon going alongside of the English steamer Trent, on the
7th of this month, Lieutenant Fairfax went on board, orderin gthe
boatswain and myself to remain in the boat. A few minutes after this
my attention was attracted by persons speaking in a loud and excited
manner upon the steamers upper deck. While considering its mean-
ing the noise was repeated, which decided me to join Lieutenant Fair-
fax immediately on board. Found him surrounded by the officers of
the ship amid passengers, among whom I recognized Messrs. Slidell and
Enstis. The confusion at this time passes description. As soon, how-
ever, as he could be heard, the mail agent (who was a retired hicuten.
ant or commhnder in the British navy) protested against the act of
removing passengers from an English steamer.
	Lieutenant Fairfax requested Mr. Mason to go quietly to the San
Jacinto, but that gentleman replied that he would yield only to force,
whereupon I was ordered to our ship to report the presence of the
above-named gentlemen, together with Mr. Macfarland ,~and ask that
the remainder of our force be sent to the Trent, after which I returned
to her, and, entering the cabin, saw Mr. Fairfax endeavoring to enter
Mr. Shidells room, which was then prevented in a measure by the
excitement which prevailed in and around that gentlemans quarters.
	The passengers (not including Messrs. Mason, Slidell, Eustis, and
Macfarland) were disposed at this time to give trouble; some of them
went so far as to threaten, and upon Lieutenant Greer being inforumed
by me of this fact, he ordered the marines to clear the passageway of
the cabin, but as Mr. Shidell had now come out of his stateroom through
the window where we could get to him, the order to the marines was
coum term am ded by Lieutenant Fairfax.
	Mr. Slidell was removed to the boat by Mr. Grace and myself and
no more force was used than would show what would be done in ca~se
of necessity. Mr. Masomi was taken in charge of by Lieutenant Fairfax
and Third Assistant Engineer Hall. The two secretaries walked into
the boat by themselves.
	While we were on board of the Trent mamiy remarks were muade
reflecting discreditably upon us and the Government of the United
States. No one was more abusive than the mail agent, who took pains
at the same tinme to inform us that he was the only person on board
officially connected with Her Britannic Majestys Government, who, he
said, would in con sequemice of this act break the blockade of the Southern
United States ports. Another person, supposed to be a passenger, was
so violent that the captain ordered him to be locked up.
	A short time before leaving the steamer I was informed by one o

Page 137

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	137

her crew that the mail agent was advising the captain to arm the crew
and passengers of his ship, which J immediately communicated to
Lieutenant Greer. About 3:30 p. m. we returned to the San Jacinto.
I am, respectfully, your obedient scrvaut,
J.	B. HOUSTON,
	Second Assistant Engineer, U~ S. S. San Jacinto.
Captain CHARLES WiLKES, Commanding.
[Enclosure 7.]

U.	S. S. SAN JACINTO,
At Sea, November 13, 18G1.
	SIR: In obedience to your order of the 11th instant, I respectfully
make the following report of what came nuder my observation on board
the mail steamer Trent whilst hove to under our guns on the 8th instant:
	I boarded the steamer in the third cutter, nnder the command of Lieu-
tenant Greer. Immediately ou reaching the steamers deck I stationed
4 men (an oiler, assistant oiler, and 2 firemen), who accompanied me,
in the port gaugway. I then went into the cabin, where I saw Lieuten-
ant Fairfax surrounded by a large nninber of passengers and the offi-
cers of the ship. He was conversing with Mr. Mason, amid endeavoring
to get him to come peaceably on l)oard this ship. Mr. Mason refused
to comply unless by force. Lieutenant Fairfax then said he would take
him by force, and, taking hold of Mr. Masons coat collar, gave an order,
0-entlemen, lay hands on imium. I themi laid hold of him by the coat
collar, when Mr. Mason said lie would yield under protest. I accom-
panied himn as far as tile boat, which was at the })ort gangway.
	Returning to time cabin, Lieutenant Fairfax was at Mr. Slidells room.
After a short timne Mr. Slidell came from his room through a side win-
dow. He also refused Lieutenant Fairfaxs order to come on board this
ship unless by three. I, with several of the officers,then caught hold
amid used sufficient power to remove him from the cabin. He was
accoimipanied to time boat by Second Assistant Engineer Houston and
Boatswain Grace. I themi received an order fromn both Lieutenants
Fairfax and Greer to retain the boat till Messrs. Eustis and Macfarland
were thumid. I remained in the gangway till Messrs. Mason, Slidell,
Eustis, and Macfarlaimd shoved off Lieutenant Greer having charge of
the gentlemeim.
	There was a great deal of excitement and talkimmg during the whole
time, the officers of the steamer particularly endeavoring to thwart
Lieutenant Fairfax in carrying out his orders. They also used very
harsh expressions toward us, calling us pirates, piratical expedition,
etc., and threatened to open our blockade in a few weeks. At one
time the officers and a passenger made a demonstration. At the moment
the marine guard came hastily in the cabin, but were immediately
ordered back by Lieutenant Fairfax.
	As far as I am able to judge, everything was conducted on our part
in a peaceable, quiet, aiid gentlemanly manmmer, and most remarkably
so by Lieutenant Fairfax, who certainly had sufficient cause to resort
to arms. I remnained omi baard the Trent till after the baggage belong-
imig to the gentlemen had been sent
with Lientemmant Greer.	, and finally returned to this shmp
Most respectfully, your obediemit servant,
GEO. W. HALL,
Third Assistant Engineer, U. S. Navy.
	Captain ChARLES WILKES,
Commanding U. S. S. San Jacinto

Page 138

	138	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		                  [Enclosure 8.]

U.	S. S. SAN JACINTO,
At Sea, November 12, 1861.
	SIR:	In compliance with your order of yesterday, I have the honor
to state the following: Between the hours of 1:30 and 2p. m. on Friday,
November 8, I boarded the mail steamer Trent in the third cutter, under
the command of Lieutenant James A. Greer, of this ship. Immediately
after my arrival on board the Trent I was called into the cabin by
Lieutenant Fairfax, who was endeavoring to persuade Mr. Mason to go
peaceably on board the San Jacinlo, which he obstinately refused to
do, and said he would only go by force. Lieutenant Fairfax then said,
Gentlemen (addressing the officers of this ship then present, Mr.
Geo. W. Hall, third assistant engineer, Mr. H. P. Grace, boatswain,
and myself), lay your hands on Mr. Mason, which we accordingly did.
Mr. Mason then said, I yield to force, or words to that effect, when
a gentleman alongside in uniform, apparently an officer of the Trent,
said, Under protest. Mr. Mason then said, I yield to force under
protest and will go. There was a great deal of excitement on board
during this time, and the officers and passengers of the steamer were
addressing us by numerons opprobrious epithets, such as calling us
i)irates, villains, traitors, etc. The above occurred on the port side of
the cabin. Immediately after I was ordered by Lieutenant James A.
Greer to take charge on the starboard side, as some of our boats were
coming alongside to take the personal effects of the prisoners. I
remained there until about 3 p. in., when I was ordered by Lieutenant
James A. Greer to return on board the San Jacinto in charge of a por-
tion of the prisoners baggage.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant~
ROBERT G. SIMPSON,
Paymasters Clerk.
Captain CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding U. S. S. San Jacinto.

[Enclosure 9.]

U.	S. S. SAN JACINTO,
At Sea, November 12, 1861.
	SIR:	In obedience to your order, I hereby state that I was one of
those who boarded the Trent, mail packet. Mr. Mason, Mr. Macfarland,
and Eustis stepped quietly into the boats, and were removed to the
San Jacinto. Mr. Slidell, however, on a hat refusal to leave the ship
in any other manner, was, by a gentle application of force, placed in
the boat and removed.
	Everything was conducted in an orderly, gentlemanly manner, as far
as it came under my observation.
I remain, your obedient servant,
CHARLES 13. DAHLGREN,

Masters .Miate.~
Captain CHARLES WILKES.
[Enclosure 10.]

U.	S. S. SAN JACINTO,
At Sea, November 12, 1861.
	SIR:	In obedience to your orders of the 12th instant, I have the
honor to make the following statement:
On the 8th instant, about 1:30 p. in., I was ordered to accompan

Page 139

OPERATIONS 0 TIlE CRUISERSUNION.	139


Lieutenant B. M. Fairfax in the second cutter to board the mail
steamer &#38; ent, then hove to under the guns of the San Jacinto. Lieu-
tenant Fairfax ordered Mr. Houston and myself to remain in the boat
while he went on board. A few minutes after Mr. Fairfax boarded
her we heard some loud talking on deck, and Mr. Houston went on
board to see if Mr. Fairfax needed assistance. He shortly returned
an delivered Lieutenant Fairfaxs order that I should come on board
with the crew. I came on board, fouiid Mr. Fairfax surrounded by
ladies and gentlemen, and reported to him. He ordered me to remain
in the gangway with the men. He was talking at the time to Mr.
Mason, persuading him to come on board the San Jacinto without fur-
ther force being used. Soon after another boat caine alorgside in
charge of Lieutenant Jas. A. Greer. He went in the cabiiv soon
afterward Lieutenant Fairfax ordered me to wait on Mr. S]idell to the
boat. At this order some of the passengers began to shout, and the
marines rushed iu the cabin, but Lieutenant Fairfax ordered them
back to the gangway.
	I saw Mr. Slidell in the second cutter. Messrs. Mason, Eustis, and
Macfarland were in the boat. Mr. Greer returned with those gentle-
men to the San Jacinto, and I was charged to bring the baggage and
effects of the gentlemen on board the San Jacinto. which I did, and
reported my return to Lieutenant Breese. All the officers of this
ship that boarded her have been grossly abused by the officers and
passengers of the mail steamer.
I am, sir, very respectfully, you obedient servant,
		    H. P. GRACE,
	Captain CHARLES WILKES,	Boatswain, U. S. Navy.

Commanding U. S. S. San Jacinto.

[Enclosure 11.]

U.	S. S. SAN JACINTO,
At Sea, November .9, iSGi.
	SIR: We desire to com?nunicate to you by this memorandum the facts
attending our arrest yesterday on board the British mail steamer Trent,
by your order, and our transfer to this ship.
	We, the undersigned, embarked at Havana on the 7th instant as
passengers on board the Treat, Captain Moir, bound to the island of
St. Thomas, the Trent being one of the regular mail and passenger
line of the British IRoyal Steamship Company running from Vera Cruz
via Havana to St. Thomas and thence to Southampton, England. We
paid our passage money for the whole route from Havana to Southamp-
ton to the British consul at Havana, who acts as the agent or repre-
sentative of the said steamship company, Mr. Slidell being accompa-
med by his family, consisting of his wife, four children, and a servant,
and Mr. Eustis by his wife and servants.
	The Trent left the port of Havana about 5 oclock a. m. on the morn-
ing of the 7th instant, and pursued her voyage uninterruptedly until
intercepted by the U. S. S. San Jacinto, under your command, on the
day following (the 8th instant), in the manner now to be related.
	When the San Jaeinto was first observed, several miles distant, the
Trent was pnrsning the usual course of her voyage along the Old
Bahama or Nicholas Channel; was about 240 miles from Havana, and
in sight of the light-house of Paredon Grande, the San Jacinto then
lying stationary, or nearly so, about the middle of the channel, an

Page 140

140	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

where it was some 15 miles wide, as since shown us on the chart, the
nationality of the ship being then unknown.
	When the Trent had approached near enough for her flag to be distin-
guished, it was hoisted at the peak and at the main, and so remained
for a time. No flag was shown by the San Jacinto. When the Trent
had approached within a mile of the San Jacinto, still pursuing the
due conrse of her voyage, a shotted gun was fired from the latter ship
across thecourseof the Trent, and the United States flag at the sainetime
displayed at the peak. The British flag was again immediately hoisted
as before, by the Trent, and so remained. When the Trent had
approached, still on her course, within from 200 to 300 yards of the
San Jacinto, a second shotted gnu was fired from your ship again across
the course of the Trent. When the Trent got within hailing distance,
her captain inquired what was wanted. The reply was understood to
be they would send a boat, both ships being then stationary, with
steam shut off. A boat very soon put off from your ship, followed imme-
diately by two other boats, with full crews, and armed with muskets
and side arms.
	A lieutenant in the naval uniform of the United States and with side
arms boarded the Trent, and in the presence of most of the passengers,
then assembled on the upper deck, said to Captain Moir that he came
with orders to demand his passenger list. The captain refused to pro-
duce it, and formally protested against any right to visit his ship for
the purpose indicated. After some conversation importing renewed
protests on the part of the captain against the alleged object of the
visit, and on the part of the officer of the San Jacinto, that he had only
to execute his orders, the latter said that two gentlemen, naming Mr.
Slidell and Mr. Mason, were known to be on board, as also two other
gentlemen, naming Mr. Eustis and Mr. Macfarland, and that his orders
were to take and carry them on board the San Jacinto. It should have
been noted that on first addressing the captain the officer announced
himseltbas a lieutenant of the U. S. S. San Jacinto. The four gentlemen
thus named being present, the lieutenant addressed Mr. Slidell, and
afterward Mr. Mason, repeating that his orders were to take them,
together with Mr. Enstis and Mr. Macfarland, and carry them on board
his ship, which orders he must execute. Mr. Slidell and Mr. Mason, in
reply, protested in the presence of the captain of the Trent, his officers
and passengers, against such threatened violation of their persons and
of their rights, and informed the lieutenant that they would not leave
the ship they were in unless compelled by the employment of actual
force greater than they could resist, and Mr. Eustis and Mr. Macfarland
united with them in expressing a like purpose. That officer stated
that he hoped he would not be compelled to resort to the use of force,
but if it became necessary to etnploy it in order to execute his orders
he was prepared to do so. He was answered by the undersigned that
they would submit to such force alone. The lieutenant then went to
the gangway, where his boats were, the undersigned going at the same
time to their staterooms on the deck next below, followed by Captain
Moir and by the other passengers.
	The lieutenant returned with a party of his men, a portion of whom
were armed with side arms, and others appearing to be a squad of
marines having muskets and bayonets. Mr. Shidell was at this time in
his stateroom, immediately by and in full view. The lieutenant then
said to Mr. Mason that having his force now present he hoped to be
relieved from the necessity of calling it into actual use. That gentle-
man again answered that he would only submit to actual force greate

Page 141

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	141

than he could overcome, when the lieutenant and several of his men ,by
his order, took hold of him in a manner and in numbers sufficient to
make resistance fruitless, and Mr. Slidell joining the group at the same
time, one or more of the armed party took like hold of him, and these
gentlemen at once went into the boat.
	During this scene many of the passengers became highly excited and
gave vent to the strongest exl)ressions of indignation, seeming to indi-
cate a purpose of resistance on their part, when the squad, armed with
muskets, with bayonets fixed, uiiade a sensible advance of one or two
paces, with their arms at a charge. It must be added here, omitted in
the conrse of the narrative, that before the party left the upper deck
an officer of the Trent named Williams, in the naval uniform of Great
Britain, and known t~ the passengers as having charge of the mails
and accompanying them to England, said to the lieutenant that, as the
only person present directly representing his Government, he felt called
upon, in language as strong and as emphatic as he could express, to
denounce the whole proceeding as a piratical act.
	Mr. Slidell and Mr. Mason, together with Mr. Eustis and Mr. Macfar.
land, against whom force had in like manner been used, were taken to
the San Jacinto as soon as they entered the boat. When they reached
yonr ship you received them near the gangway, announcing yourself
as Captain Wilkes, the commander of the ship, and conducted them
to your cabin, which you placed at their disposal.
	When the undersigned came on board they found the men at their
quarters and the guns bearing on the Trent. After some time occupied
in bringing on board our luggage and effects, the San Jacinto proceeded
to the northward, through the Santaren Channel, the Trent having
been detained from three to four hours.
	The foregoing is believed to be a correct narrative in substance of
the facts and circumstances attending our arrest and transfer from the
British mail steamer to the ship under your command, and which we
doubt not will be corroborated by the lieutenant present, as well as by
all who witnessed them.
	The incidents here given in detail may not have been witnessed by
each one of the undersigned individually, but they were by one or more
of them. As for the most part they did n~t pass under your notice,
we have deemed it proper to present them in this form before you,
expressing the wish that if considered incorrect in any part the inac-
curacies may be pointed out.
	With a respectful request that you will transmit a copy of this paper
to the Government of the United States, together with your report of
the transaction, to facilitate which a copy is herewith inclosed,
	We have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servants,
JOHN SLIDELL.
J.	M. MASON.
GEORGE EUSTIS.
J.	E. MACFARLAND.
Captain [CHARLES] WILKES, U. S. Navy,
Commanding San Jacinto.

[Enclosure 12.]

U.	S. S. SAN JACINTO,
At Sea, iVovember 13, 1861.
	GENTLEMEN:	Your letter dated the 9th instant was handed to me
yesterday. I shall transmit it, agreeably to your request, to the honor

Page 142

142	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

able Secretary of the Navy with my report of the transaction to which
it refers.
	In reply to yonr wish to have any inaccuracies it may contain pointed
out, 1 deem it my duty to say the facts differ materially in respect
to the time and circumstances. The facts in my possession are derived,
first, from the log book (the official record of the ship); and second,
from the reports, in writing, of all the officers who visited the Trent,
all which will form a part of my report.
I am, very respectfully, yonr obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Captain, Commanding San Jacinto.
Messrs. JOHN SLIDELL, JAMES M. MASON, GEORGE EUSTIS, J. E.
MAUFARLAND.
[Enclosure 13.]


U.	S. S. SAN JACINTO, November 15, 1861.
	SIR:	Before leaving your ship we think it proper that we should
state that since we have been on board of her we have uniformly been
treated with great courtesy and attention.
Very respectfully, your obedient servants,
JOHN SLIDELL.
J.	M. MASON.
J.	E. MACFARLAND.
GEORGE EUSTIS.
Captain WILKES,
Commanding U. S. S. San Jacinto.


Report of Flag-Officer Goldsborough, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. flagship Minnesota, of
arrival at Hampton Roads of Messrs. Mason and Slidell.

U. S. FLAGSHIP MINNESOTA,
Hampton Roads, November 15, 1861.
	SIR:	The San Jacinto, Captain Wilkes, has just arrived (2 p. in.) from
the Bahama Channel. She put in here for coal in order to get to New
York. She has on board Messrs. Slidell, Mason, Eustis, and Macfarland,
all of whom she took out of the English steamer Trenton the 8th instant.
The moment she gets through with taking on board 100 tons of coal she
will start for New York.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
L.	M. GOLDSBOROUGH,
Flag-Officer.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary, of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Captain Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding U.S. S. San 3acinto, of arrival at Hampton
Roads.

U.	S. S. SAN JACINTO,
Hampton Roads, November 15, 1861.
	SIR:	I have found it impossible to reach New York, my coal being
exhausted; I have but one-half days supply remaining on board. I
shall obtain sufficient in a few hours to proceed forthwith to my dest

Page 143

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	143

nation, New York, where I hope to receive your instructions relative
to the Confederate prisoners I have on board, and this ship.
	I have determined to send Commander A. Taylor, U. S. Navy, who
is a passenger in this ship from the coast of Africa, to Washington by
the boat as bearer of dispatches, and have given him orders to report
to you in person. He will be able to answer you all and every ques-
tion relative to the subject of my dispatch, of which he is the bearer,
	Believing that the Department has entertained doubts of the loyalty
of Commnandei Taylor, it affords me great pleasure to say that my
intercourse with him has fully satisfied me that no one is more loyal to
the Union in the Navy.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, yonr obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
	Hon. GIPEON WELLES,	Captain.
Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Captain Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. San Jacinto, of the legal aspect of
the capture of Messrs. Mason and Slidell.

U.	S. S. SAN JACINTO,
At Sea, IVovember iG, 18G1.
	SIR: In my dispatch by Commander Taylor I confined myself to the
reports of the movements of this ship and the facts connected with the
capture of Messrs. Slidell, Mason, Eustis, and Macfarland, as Jititeuded
to write you particularly relative to the reasons which induced my
action in making these prisoners.
	When I heard at Cienfnegos, on the south side of Cuba, of these
commissioners having landed on the island of Cuba, and that they were
at The Havannah, and would depart in the English steamer of the 7th
November, I determined to intercept them, and carefully examined all
the authorities on international law to which I had access, viz, Kent,
Wheatou, Yattel, besides various decisions of Sir William Scott and
other judges of the admiralty court of Great Britain, which bore upon
the rights of neutrals and their responsibilities.
	The governments of Great Britain, France, and Spain having issued
proclamations that the Confederate States were viewed, considered,
and treated as belligerents, and knowing that the ports of Great Britain,
France, spain, and Holland in the West Indies were open to their
vessels, and that they were admitted to all the courtesies and protec-
tion vessels of the United States received, every aid and attention
being given them, proved clearly that they acted upon this view and
decision, and brought them within the international law of search and
under the responsibilities. I therefore felt no hesitation in boarding
and searching all vessels of whatever nation I fell in with, and have
done so.
	The question arose in my mind whether I had the right to capture
the persons of these commissioners, whether they were amenable to
capture. There was no doubt I had the right to capture vessels with
written dispatches; they are expressly referred to in all authorities,
subjecting the vessel to seizure and condemnation if the captain of
the vessel had the knowedge of their being on board, but these gen-
tieruen were not dispatches in the literal sense, and did not seem to
come under that designation, and nowhere could I find a case in point

Page 144

144	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

That they were commissioners, I had ample proof from their own avowal,
and bent on mischievous and traitorous errands against our country,
to overthrow its institutions and enter into treaties and alliances with
foreign states, expressly forbidden by the Constitution. They had beeii
presented to the captain-general of Cuba by Her Britannic Majestys
consul-general, but the captain -general told me that he had not received
them in that capacity, but as distinguished gentlemen and strangers.
	I then considered them as the embodiment of dispatches, and as
they had openly declared themselves as charged with all authority from
the Confederate Government to form treaties and alliances tending to
the establishment of their independence, 1 became satisfied that their
mission was adverse and criminal to the Union, and it thereibre became
my duty to arrest their progress and capture them, if they had no
passports or papers from the Federal Government, as l)rovided for
nuder the law of nations, viz, that foreign ministers of a belligerent
on board of neutral ships are required to possess papers from the other
belligerent to permit them to pass free.
	Report and their assumption gave them the title of ministers to
France and England, but inasmuch as they had not been received by
either of these powers I did not conceive they had any immunity
attached to their persons, and were but escaped conspirators, plotting
and contriving to overthrow the Government of the United States, and
they were therefore not to be considered as having any claim to the
immunities attached to the character they thought fit to assume. As
respects the steamer in which they embarked, I ascertained in The
llavannah that she was a merchant vessel plying between Vera Cruz,
The ilavannab, and St. Thomas, carrying the mail by contract.
	The agent of the vessel, the son of the British consul at fl avana, was
well aware of the character of these persons; that they en gaged their
passage and did embark in the vessel; his father had visited and
introduced them as ministers of the Confederate States on their way to
England and France. They went in the steamer with the knowledge
and by the consent of the captain, who endeavored afterwards to conceal
them by refusing to exhibit the passenger list and the papers of the
vessel. There can be no doubt he knew they were carrying highly
important dispatches and were endowed with instructions inimical to
the United States; this rendered his vessel (a neutral) a good prize,
and I determined to take possession of her, and, as I mentioned in my
report, send her to Key West for adjudication, where I am well satis-
fied she would have been condemned for carrying these persons, and
for resisting to be searched; the cargo also was liable, as all.the ship-
pers were knowing to the embarkation of these live dispatches, and
their traitorous motives and actions to the Union of the United States.
	I forbore to seize her, however, in consequence of my being so reduced
in officers and crew and the derangement it would cause innocent per-
sons, there being a large number of passengers who would have been
put to great loss and inconvenience as well as disappointment from the
interruption it would have caused them in not being able to join the
steamer from St. Thomas to Europe. 1 therefore concluded to sacrifice
the interests of my officers and crew in the prize, and suffered the
steamer to proceed. after the necessary detention to effect the transtbv
of these commissioners, considering I had obtained the important emm(l
I had in view, and which affected the interests of our country and
interrupted the action of that of the Confederates.
	I would add that the conduct of Her Britannic Majestys subjects, both
official amid others, showed but little regard or obedience to her procl

Page 145

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	145

mation, by aiding and abetting the views and endeavoring to conceal
the persons of these commissioners.
	I have pointed out sufficient reasons to show you that my actions in
this case were derived from a firm conviction that it became my duty
to make these I)arties prisoners and to bring them to the United States.
	Although in my giving up this valuable prize, I have deprived the
officers and crew of a well earned reward, I am assured that they are
qnite content to forego any advantages which might have accrued to
to them under the circumstan ces. I may add that, having assumed the
responsibility, I am willing to abide the resnit.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 16, 1861.
	You will send the San Jacinto immediately to Boston and direct
Captaiim Wilkes to deliver the prisoners at Fort Warren. Let their
baggage be strictly guarded and delivered to the colonel at Fort War-
ren for examination. The San Jacinto xviii be paid oft at Boston.
Send amount of money required. Answer per telegraph.
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commodore II. PAULDING,	Secretary of the Navy.
Commandant Navy Yard, New York.


Report of Captain Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. San Jacinto, of arrival at
Newport, R. I.

U. S. S. SAN JACINTO,
Newport, A. I., November 20, 1861.
	SIR: I intended to send you the enclosed (lispatch from New York~
but on my arrival in the narrows I was boarded by a steam tug with
Marshal Murray and his deputy on board. As soon as they came on
board and handed me your and Mr. Sewards (lispatch, I headed the
ship for Boston.
	Adverse winds and want of coal compelled me to put in this port,
and shall leave as soon as I have taken in sufficient coal to carry me to
Boston.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
-	Secretary of the Navy.


[Telegram.]

(Received November 21, 1861, from Newport II. I.)
	I have been obliged to put in here for coal, being unable to reach
Boston, owing to the severe winds we encountered. I sh all coal the
earliest moment for my destination. I forward you the contents of a
	123A	1

Page 146

1 46
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
note received from the prisoners on board my ship, at their request,
and ask for an early reply to its contents. It is as follows, viz:

	SIR:	You have informed us, in consequence of adverse winds and a short supply
of coal, it is your intention to put into Newport, R. I. We have seen in the news-
papers that the Government of the United States has decided that we shall be
placed in custody of the commanding officer at Fort Warren, in Boston harbor.
The voyage from Newport to Boston by sea at this season of the year will probably
be tempestuous and disagreeable; still, we should, with the exception of one of the
signers of this letter, who is much indisposed, prefer that mode of conveyance to
Fort Warren to that by land. Still, we would much prefer to be placed in custody
at Newport, on account of comparative mildness of climate and the delicate health
of the undersigned, and we are willing to pledge ourselves not to make any attempt
to escaoe nor to communicate with~ ny person while there unless permitted so to do.
We will esteem it a favor if you will by telegraph make our wishes known to your
Government.
We have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servants,
JOHN SLIDELL.
J.	M. MASON.
J.	E. MACFARLAND.
GEORGE Eusris.

	I have forwarded you a dispatch relative to my reasons for making
the capture of these commissioners by this days niail.
Your obedient servant)
CHARLES WILKES.

Hon. GIDEON WELLES.




[TelegramI

NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 21, 1861.
	The Government has prepared no place for confinement of prisoners
at Newport. The Department can not change the destination of the
rrisoners.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy.
Captain CHARLES WILKES,

Commanding U. S. S. San Jacinto, Newport, R. L



Instructions from commandant navy yard, Boston, to Colonel Justin Dimick, U. S. Army, com-
manding at Fort Warren, Boston, with enclosed order from the Secretary of the Navy.

NAVY YARD, BOSTON, November 22, 1861.

	SIR: I have the honor to enclose you a letter to Captain Wilkes, con
taming a telegram just received from the honorable Secretary of the
Navy. In order to carry out the views of the Secretary, I have to
request you will cause the letter to be handed Captain Wilkes before
he shall permit a passenger or prisoner to land at the fort under your
command. Be pleased to peruse the letter before sealing.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
W.	L. HUDSON,
Commandant.
Colonel JUSTIN DIMICK,

Commanding Fort Warren, Boston, Mass

Page 147

OPERATIONS OF	THE CRUISERSUNION. 147

[Inclosure.]


NAVY YARD, BOSToN, November 22, 1861.
	SIR: I enclose for your action copy of telegram just received from
the Navy Department. Be pleased to carry out the wishes of the
iDepartment to the fullest extent in yonr power:
NAVY DEPARTMENT
Washington., November 21, 1861.
	Direct Captain Wilkes, immediately on his arrival, to have the effects of the rebel
commissioners on board the San Jacznto thoroughly examined, and whatever papers
may be found to send them by special messenger to the Department. Answer per
telegraph.
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Captain WM. L. HUDSON,	Sect etary of Navy.

Navy Yard.

	I have informed the Department of the receipt of its telegram.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
W.	L. HUDSON,
	Commandant.
	Captain CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding Steamer San Jacinto.


Report of Captain Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding U.S. S. San Jacinto, of delivery of Messrs.
Mason and Slideil to authorities at Fort Warren.

U.	S. S. SAN JACINTO,
Boston, November 24, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honorto report that I left Newportin this ship at 11:30
p. in. on the 21st instant en route for Boston, but on the next morning I
was obliged to put into Holmes Hole on account of the intense fog. We
arrived off Boston light last evening, and anchored there, the night
being very dark and a severe storm ahead.
	I delivered the Confederate commissioners this morning to Colonel
IDimick, commanding 1ff. S. detachment at Fort Warren, from whom I
obtained a receipt. So soon as the prisoners were landed I proceeded
immediately to Boston, and at 2 p. m. anchored off the navy yard.
	I have telegraphed you through Captain Hudson the amount of money
required to pay off the crew, and shall await your further orders.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Captain.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Naiy, Washington, D. C.


[Telegram.]

(Received November 27, 1861, from Boston.)
	Captain Wilkes informs me that the baggage of the rebel coininis-
sioners was not examined by him, they being under the control of the
marshal. My letter by the mail of this evening shows my action in
relation [to] your first telegram on this subject.
W.	L. HUDSON.
	GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy

Page 148

148	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of commandant of Navy Yard, Boston, Mass., relative to examination of Confederate
commissioners effects on U. S. S. San Jacinto.

NAVY-YARD, Boston, November 26, 1861.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you that the telegram relative to the
examination of the effects of the rebel commissioners was received at
5 p. m. oh the 22d instant. At 6 p. m. I dispatched it, under charge of
an officer, in a tug, for Fort Warren. It was handed to Colonel Dimick,
as per the enclosed copies of my letters on the subject. The San
Jacinto arrived twenty-four hours subsequently at Fort Warren, thus
giving ample time for the fulfillment of your telegram.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
W.	L. HUDSON,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Letter of congratulation from Secretary of the Navy to Captain Wilkes, U. S. Navy, command-
ing U. S. S. San Jacinto, on the capture and delivery of Messrs. Mason and Slidell.


NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 30,1861.
	SIR:	I congratulate you on your safe arrival, and especially do I
congratulate you on the great public service you have rendered in
the captare of the rebel emissaries. Messrs. Mason and Slidell have
been conspicuous in the conspiracy to dissolve the Union, and it is well
known that when seized by you they were on a mission hostile to the
Government amid the country. Your conduct in seizing these public
enemies was marked by intelligence, ability, decision, and firmness, and
has the emphatic approval of this Department. It is not necessary that
I should in this communication, which is intended to be one of con-
gratulation to yourself, officers, and crew, express an opinion on the
course pursued in omitting to capture the vessel which had these pub-
lic en&#38; mies on board, further than to say that the forbearance exercised
in this instance must not be permitted to constitute a precedent here-
after for infractions of neutral obligations.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES, -
[Secretary of the Nacy.j

Captain CHAS. WILKES,
Commanding U. S. S. San Jacinto, Boston.


Letter from Hon. 3. M. Mason, Confederate commissioner to England, to the Secretary of
State of the Confederate States, setting forth a plan for passing the blockade of Charleston.


CHARLESTON, October 5, 1861.
	DEAR SIR: It seems due to ourselves and to the occasion that you
should be informed fully of the causes of delay, with the difficulties
attending our expected departure from this port. The confidence of
success expressed by those in charge of the subject when we left
Richmond seems to have been based on the state of facts then and
perhaps for sometime previously existing, in regard to the blockade

Page 149

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	149

There had been, it appears, but two ships off the harbor, generally a
steam frigate and sloop of war, and the expectation was that going out
at night, through the main channel, we might elude observation, or,if
disappointed in that, could escape through the speed of our ship. For
a day or two after our arrival the tide did not serve for departure at
night; then there came strong winds at night, which, although they
drove the squadron out to sea by reason of the surf created on the bar,
prevented our passing over it. Before this obstacle ceased the squad-
ron reappeared with the addition of another steamer, a clipper-built
propeller, and from her trim and appearance apparently a fast ship. It
was then projected to make the attempt through the Maffitts Channel,
though without the full sanction of the pilots, and this, I believe, we
should have attempted but for the appearance at that time of another
steam frigate, thus making the squadron to consist of three steamers
beside the sloop of war. Such sudden and unusual accessions to the
blockade of the port made us infer (as a high probability, at least) that
our presence here and purpose had reached the enemy and was the
cause of the unusual preparation we witnessed.
	Mr. Slidell had determined to send his family back, and after full
consideration of the whole case we could see no alternative but to take
the route through Mexico, and so advised you by telegraph accord-
ingly. Whilst awaiting your reply, the plan was suggested which was
the subject of our telegram last night. There is a steamer belonging
to this port and owned here, called the Gordon, now and for some time
past under charter to the Government for harbor service, at (as we are
told) $210 per day. She is somcthing more than 500 tons burden, and
was used as a coasting packet, crossing occasionally to Havana. After
the war she was strengthened and refitted to be used as a l)rivateer,
and was so used for a short time, having now on board three rifled
cannon. Her speed is equal to 15 knots per hour, and may be increased
to lG, and of so light a draft of water that she can pass the bar at any
time and is not confined to the channel ways. This account of the
steamer we get from gentlemen here long acquainted with her and
only interested to serve our cause. She is used every night to recon-
noiter the enemy, going safely ont to sea, where they lie, aiid keeping
only out of reach of their guns. In the last two days she has done
the same thing in the daytime, having on board Captains Ingraliam
and Pegram, with other officers of the N4shville, and accompanied
yesterday by Mr. Slidell, with two of the young ladies of his family.
They approached then within less than 3 miles of the squadi-on and
were not molested, the steamers remaining at anchor. The squadron
has become so familiar with the nightly and occasional daily proximity
of this boat, of hose speed they are fully aware, that her presence
does not disturb them; they ceased to give her chase. The naval
officers here do not doubt that this steamer can run the blockade suc-
cessfully day or miight, and if pursued can not be overtaken. She can
take a supply of coal for six or seven days without impairing her
speed, and make the run successfully to Nassau or Havana, as may be
decided on. Communicating with her owners, she is offered for sale at
$62,000, the alleged cost to them; or for a charter at $10,000 for the
trip to either of the ports named, the owners to bear all the expenses
of the trip, reserving the privilege of bringing back some $7,000
-worth of cigars and other light articles. Mr. Treuholm, kno~vn at the
State Department as an enlightened and patriotic merchant here, and
to whom we are mnch indebted for his valuable counsels amid aid, says
that this charter money may be reduced probably one-half upon thi

Page 150

150	OPERATIONS OF TH]~ CRUISEItSUNION.

privilege of return cargo, and to effect which, should the Government
determine to charter, he will lend his ai(l and cooperation.
	I should add that in conversation yesterday in presence of Captains
Jigraharn and Pegram they agreed that the steamer Gordon, if pur-
chased, would be a very valuable acquisition for coast defense. Her
present armament is of good caliberone a large piVot gun, apparently
a 32-pounderthough, unfortunately, I did not make minute inquiry
when on board. She is also amply furnished with small arms as a
privateer.
	I have thought this explanation due that you may have the facts
and we be relieved of any apparent vacillation of purpose. It remains
only to add that, come what may, if sanctioned by the Government we
will embark at once in the Gordon, and doubt not can make the voyage
successfully; otherwise no alternative would seem to remain but the
route through Mexico, with its attendant difficulties and delays.
Very respectfully and truly, yours,
J.	M. MASON.
	Hon. R. M. T. HUNTER,
&#38; 3cretary of state.

	P. S.I have read the foregoing to Mr. Slidell, who concurs in its
statements.
J.	M. M.

	I omitted to state that on yesterday morning five ships were present
off the harbor, the fifth being a steamer.



Letter from Hon. 3. K. Mason, Confederate commissioner to England, to the Secretary of State
of the Confederate States, regarding plans for his departure from Charleston.

CHARLESTON, October 9, 1861.
	DEAR SIR: By telegram yesterday I informed you that pursuant to
the authority given us by the State Department we have chartered
the steamer Gordon for our transportation either to Nassau or Havana.
The terms of the charter party are, for the consideration of $10,000
the ship is to go to either of those ports, or to both, at our option, with
a clause reserving the right to extend the voyage to any other of
the West India Islands, at the price of $500 per day for the extra
service. We do not expect to have occasion for this latter service, but
thought it best to provide for it, in the possible contingency of its
becoming necessary to go to St. Thomas or other island to meet the
British steamer. It is thought here by those well informed that the
Gordon is not su~ciently a sea boat for the more distant island of Ber-
muda. Mr. Treimholm, of the firm of Fraser &#38; Co., agrees to pay $5,000
of the charter money for the benefit of the return-cargo space not
reserved by the owners. Thus, should we not extend the voyage beyond
Havana (which is riot anticipated), the cost to the Government will be
but $5,000; all expenses of every kind are to be borne by the owners.
	Since the arrangement was made they have been busily engaged in
putting her in complete order for sea, and we fully expect to get off
to-morrow night. Her light draft will enable her to go at any time,
and by hugging close to shore will be enabled to escape the observation
of the enemys squadron. Our plan is in such way as may be found
most safe and practicable to get on board one of the British steamer

Page 151

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	151

of the mail line between the West Indies and England. The Gordon
is too fast to be overtaken at sea. Sin~ce this change of arrangement
we have seen nothing to dissatisfy us with it as the best that could be
adopted.
	The Nashville, we under stand, is under orders from the Navy Depart-
nient to sail immediately, and will probably endeavor to get off to-night.
If the enemy are found in the position they occupy by day, the chances
are very large that she must pass within reach of their guns; in such
event her only hope of safety is that she may not be seen, or, if seen,
may not be hit; against the latter risk her speed is much relied on.
You	will of course be advised promptly wheu we are off.
Very respectfully and truly, yours,
J.	M. MASON.
	Hon. R. M. T. Hunter,
Secretary of State.


Letter from Hon. 3. M. Mason to the Secretary of State of the Confederate States, reporting
safe arrival at Cardenas, Cuba.

CARDENAS, CUBA, October 18, 1861.
	SIR: I have the pleasure to apprise you of our safe arrival on the
16th instant at this port. We left Charleston at 1 a. m. on Saturday,
12th, as I told you we should do in my letter from there of the preced-
ing day. Fortunately a rain came on at the moment of our departure,
which, increasing the darkness, the better enabled us to elude the
blockading squadron. We passed (as the captain reported) within a
mile and a half of the nearest ship, the squadron then conMisting of
three steamers and a sloop of war (a sailimig vessel). We could see their
lights, apparently not distant, but presume we escaped observation, as
we could see or hear no movement of the squadron. After we had
passed them some 3 or 4 miles, abandoning the coast, we put directly
out to sea, and by the outer passage made direct for Nassau. Off that
port we learned from the pilots who caine on board that there was no
steamer or other regular communication thence to St. Thomas, the
point of departure of the British steam line. We did not land, there-
fore, or cast anchor, but put off at once for the island of Cuba. I should
have added that we reached Nassau about 4 p. in. on Monday. At sea,
off the harbor of Cardenas, we met with a small Spanish war steamer,
when we raised the Confederate flag and asked to speak theni.
	Our salutation (by dipping our flag) as the vessels approached each
other was courteously returned, and the Spaniard laid to. Mr. Slidell,
with Mr. Eustis, went on board, and on his return reported that he was
received with great kindness and civility. We had been somewhat
detained in finding our way over the shoal water of the Bahama Banks,
and, it being doubtful whether the coal remaining would take us to
Havana, it was determined to put into this port, the Spanish steamer
kindly volunteering to attend and show us th~ way. We cast anchor
off the town about 2 p. in., but our papers of clearance being directed
to Havana, and there being some difficulty in getting the authorities
together, we did not effect a landing until the next day (yesterday).
The custom-house officers, however, were civil arid attentive, and as
soon as the local governor could be appealed to he dispensed with all
formalities, and ourselves and baggage landed without further diffi-
culty or inspection. I regret to say, however, that we shall have no
steamer hence to St. Thomas until 9th November. The steamer fo

Page 152

152	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Cadiz, once a month, departed on its voyage for Havana the day of our
arrival here. We shall thus bh detained in Cuba some three weeks.
The island is said to be healthy. We shall go to Havana~ or its neigh-
borhood, in a day or two, and remain there and thereabouts until the
time for our departure.
	-W e found a few Yankee vessels in port here, and learned that some
of the captains loudly expressed their dissatisfaction at our being
escorted into port by a Spanish man-of-war. The governor, with some
of the principal gentlemen of the town, have called on and proffered us
every attention, and so far as we can gather opinion from conversation
and on the streets the sympathies of the people are entirely with us. I
should not omit to add that a Mr. Casanuova, an acquaintance of Mr.
Slidell, and who married a Virginia lady, learning at his plantation by
a dispatch sent from here of our arrival, came immediately to town by
a ride of 30 miles on horseback, and cordially and urgently invited our
entire party to visit him at his plantations, both of sugar and coffee,
and become his guests during our stay in the island; and, as further
evidence of his kindness or sympathy, as may be, has arranged a
special train of cars to take such of the party as can go there to-mor-
row. Mr. Slidell and his family mid I will go for a few days. At
Havana we shall endeavor to gather such information as may be useful
to the Government as regards the disposition of the authorities and the
people and transmit it thence by such opportunity as may be presented.
	We think that our successful departure from Charleston, leaving the
Nashville still there, will best vindicate the course we adopted in rec-
ommending to the Government the charter of the smaller steamer.
From our experience in the matter, and knowing how closely the port
was watched, we have every reason to congratulate ourselves on the
result.
	The steamer that brought us, under her new name of the Theodora,
after replenishing her coal here, proceeded on her way to Havana, and
I shall send this dispatch to meet her there, and I hope, to be safely
taken by her to you.
	We sent you from Charleston the charter party with her owners, and
with it the engagement of the house of Fraser &#38; Co. to pay $5,000 for
the privilege of freighting her home from Havana, all which we hope
will be acceptable to the Government.
	Writing you thus fully, Mr. Slidell requests me to say that he has
considered it unnecessary to write separately, but that he will do so
from Havana.
	I am gratified to add that notwithstanding the excessive heat all of
our large party remain in good health. Thermometer from 960 to 98~.
With great respect, and very truly, yours,
J.	M. MASON.
	Hon. R. M. T. HUNTER,
Secretary of State.



Protest of~Oonfederate commissioners to the British authorities regarding the capture of Messrs.
Mason and Slidell.

LONDON, Nov ember 27, 1861.
	The undersigned have the honor to submit to her Britannic Majestys
Government the following facts:
	On the 7th of November instant James M. Mason, John Slidell

Page 153

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	153

James E. Macfarland, and George Eustis, citizens of the Confederate
States of Ameriaa. embarked on board of her Britannic Majestys royal
mail steam packet Trent, then in the harbor of Havana, Cnba, as pas-
sengers for Southampton, England.
	On the 8th instant, when in the Bahama Channel, off the Pare4ion
Grande light-house, the Trent was brought to by the firing of two
guns, said to have been shotted, from a U. S. man-of-war, the San
Jacinto, which vessel sent an officer and armed boats crew on board of
the Trent, and after some preliminary acts the officer demanded that
the four passengers named above should be delivered up to him. The
captain of the Trent refused to comply with this order, and the citizens
of the Confederate States, above named, claimed the protection of the
British flag. The United States officer then proceeded to arrest those
gentlemen by the aid of his armed crew, under circumstances of aggra-
vating violence, and carried them as prisoners from the Trent to the
San Jacinto.
	The undersigned believe that this proceeding is in violation of inter-
national law and not justifiable under any treaty between the Govern-
ment of her Britannic Majesty and that of the United States.
	If it shall be insisted upon that these citizens were coming to Eng-
land in the capacity of ambassadors, it is a sufficient reply that they
were not recognized as such by the Government of the United States
nor by that of her Majesty. The former Government looks upon them
simply as rebellious citizens, the latter as the citizens of a belligerent
power. INo charge of their being bearers of dispatches was made by
the United States officer; and if made it is confidently believed it
would not justify their forcible seizure under the circumstances.
	It may be conceded that these gentlemen had been commissioned by
the President of the Confederate States to proceed to Europe and
use their best endeavors to form friendly relations with the neutral
European powers, but under such supposition the undersigned insist
that they were not liable to seizure upon the deck of a neutral in the
manner in which they were seized, for the reasons, first, that such a
procedure can only be sustained upon the principle that neutral States
are not justifiable in entertaining propositions for the recognition of
and commercial intercourse with belligerent powers; second, that
these persons were proceeding from a neutral port to a neutral port in
a neutral vessel.
	It may be conceded that ambassadors proceeding from an enemys
port to a neutral port are liable to seizure under a neutral flag; but the
undersigned have been unable to find a principle of international law
or a precedent which justifies such a procedure when the ambassador
is proceeding from one neutral port to another. In fact, a high Ameri-
can authority, President Woolsey, lays it down as incontrovertible that
a neutral vessel may convey unmolested an ambassador of the enemy
or dispatches of the enemy to and from his own or any other neutral
government. (Introduction to Study of International Law, p. 408,
On the relations between belligerents and neutrals, by Theodore D.
Woolsey, Yale College, Boston, 1860.)
	Mr. Wheaton seems to sustain this view, for after laying down the
general principle that the fraudulent carrying of dispatches will also
subject the neutral vessel in which they are transported to capture
and confiscation, he further says: But carrying the dispatches of an
ambassador or other public minister of the enemy resident in a neutral
territory is an exception to the reasoning on which the above general
rule is founded. The author says: The neutral country has a right t

Page 154

154	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

preserve its relations with the enemy, and you are not at liberty to con-
clude that any communication between them can partake in any degree
of the nature of hostility against you. Most assuredly, then, the bear-
ers of such dispatches, or the ambassadors themselves, are not liable
to seizure on a neutral vessel, when proceeding from one neutral country
to another.
	The undersigned think that it will be found on examination that
when an ambassador has been held to be liable to seizure on a neutral
vessel while on his passage it has been when the neutral vessel
received him in the enemy~s port or was carrying him to the enemys
port. In the present case the persons seized were received as simple
passengers on the neutral vessel, bound from one neutral country to
another.
	The undersigned submit also this further view of the case: Grant-
ing that the persons seized were liable to seizure, it is submitted that
the question of liability is a judicial question. For the decisioii of all
such questions admiralty courts are established, and in those courts
alone, where both parties can be heard, could they be determined.
The only proper course was a seizure of the Trertt, with her cargo and
passengers, and a submission of the whole matter to a judical tribunal.
	The undersigned therefore feel it to be their duty to l)rotest against
this act of illegal violence done by the Government of the United
States to citizens of the Confederate States on board of an English
vessel, by which they have been torn from their families and committed
to a loathsome prison. They feel it to be their duty to lay the facts
before the Government of her Britannic Majesty, and to claim for
their imprisoned countrymen the full benefit of that protection to
which every private person who seeks shelter under the British flag
and demeans himself according to British law has heretofore ever
been held to be entitled.
	The undersigned therefore confidently hope that her Majestys
Government will cause those citizens of the Confederate States who
have been so illegally taken from the deck of a British vessel to be
restored to the position which they enjoyed under the protection of the
British flag wheu seized, or to the l)ort whither they were bound, and
to which her Majestys Royal Mail Steaui Packet Company had
engaged to take them after having received the usual compensation.
	The undersigned have the honor to assure his lordship of their very
high consideration.
W.	L. YANCEY.
P.	A. RosT.
A.	DUDLEY MANN.
	The Right Honorable EARL RUSSELL.





Report of Confederate commissioners in London to Hon. R. M. T. Hunter of the capture of
Messrs. Mason and Sliddell.


COMMISSION OF THE CONFEDERATE STATES OF AMERICA,
London, December 2, 18G1.
	SIR:	We have the honor to acknowledge receipt on the 27th ultimo
of dispatches Nos. 8 and 9, of date the 24th of August, as also of dis-
patch No. 10, dated 23d September, 18~1

Page 155

OPERATIONS OF tHE ~JRUJ8ERSUMON.	1~5

	It is our painful duty to communicate to you that on the 8th of
November ultimo Messrs. John Slidell, James M. Mason, James E. Mac-
farIand, and George EPstis were forcibLy taken by the U. S. man-of-
war San Jacinto, from her Britannic Majestys royal mail steam packet
Trent while on her passage from Havana, Cuba~, to the island of St.
Thomas, when in the Bahama passage oft the Paredon Grande light-
house.
	The facts as far as we have been able to learn them, and we believe
them to be entirely reliable, aic as follows: OII the 7th of November
Messrs. Slidell and Mason, with their suite, embarked on board the
Ti-cnt in the harbor of Havana as passengers for Southampton, Eng-
land. On the morning of the 8th of November, when in the narrowest
part of the Bahama passage, off Paredon (irande light-house, the San
Jacinto was seen lying to in the passage. When the Trent came within
haifa mile, or less, the San Jacinto ran up the United States flag, and
simultaneously fired a round shot across the bows of the Trent, iinmedi-
ately afterwards firing a shell, which exploded within 100 yards of that
vessel. The captain of time h-eat then (hisplayed the British flag, and,
being within hailing distance demanded to know what was wanted.
The reply from the officer of the San Jacinto was that he wished to send
a boat alongside. The Trent was then brought to, and Lieutenant
Fairfax, with an armed boats crew from the San Jacinto, boarded her.
He demanded of the captain a list of his passengers. This was refused.
The lieutenant then said that the captain of the San Jacinto was
informed that Messrs. Mason, Slidell, Macfarland, and E ustis were on
board, amid that he was instructed to seize them. These gentlemen at
once avowed their presence, but claimed the protection of the British
flag.
	The United States officer replied that unless they were surrendered
to him he should take possession of the ship, which he accordingly did,
and after a solemn protest by the admiralty officer on board the Trent
against the whole proceeding, those gentlemen were seized at the point
of the bayonet.
	Lieutenant Fairfax further said that he was instructed to lay the
ship alongside the San Jacinto. The captain of the Trent replied that
he was going to his quarter-deck, adding, If you want me you will
find me there, and at once proceeded to the quarter-deck. Lieutenant
Fairfax left the Trent, however, without further enforcing his order,
carrying with him Messrs. Slidell, Mason, Macfarland, and Eustisas
prisoners, and the Trent timen proceeded upon her voyage.
	All the papers, letters, and dispatches under eharge of Messrs.
Slidell and Mason were brought to us on the 27th instant, immediately
after the arrival of the West India mail packet at Southampton, by
Mr. Hanekel, of Charleston.
	Under these peculiar circumstances time members of time commission,
after consultation, taking into consideration the great imi terests of the
Confederate States, have severally come to the conclusion that it is tIme
duty of each to remain near this Government and that of France until
further advised by the President. In consequence we have addressed
to her Britannic Majestys Government a solemn remonstrance against
the outrage perpetrated by the United States in thus forcibly seizing
the persons of citizens of the Confederate States on board of an Eng-
lish vessel at sea.
	We have also, in obedience to instructions of the President to the
Hon. James M. Mason, communicated to her Britannic Majestys Gov-
eminent a copy of the list of vessels which had arrived at and cleare

Page 156

156	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

from the Confederate ports from the date of the proclamation of the
blockade to the 20th of August, 1861, and also a copy of the resolu-
tions of Congress of the 13th of August, 1861, touching the declaration
of the conference of Paris. We annex copies of both of these notes.
	We also send with this dispatch, for the information of the Depart-
ment, certain editorials of the London journals, indicating the state of
pul)lic opinion upon the seizure of Messrs. Slidell and Mason and their
secretaries.
	The editorial from the Morning Post is understood to be inspired by
Lord Palmerston; that from the Times of the 29th is understood to be
from the foreign office.
	Having carefully read the different papers, we find that there is but
one daily journal in London that entertains the opinion that the act of
the San Jacinto is justifiable. That is the Morning Star, the supposed
organ of Mr. Bright and Mr. Cobden, and used as one by Mr.
Adams.
	It is believed in well-informed circles, and, in fact, we may say that
it has been communicated to us by persons connected with high official
personages in the Government, that the cabinet in council on the 30th
ultimo determined, upon a report of the law officers of the Crown, that
the act of the commander of the San Jacinto was illegal, and that a
demand should be made on the Government of the United States for
apology and the restitution of Messrs. Slidell, Mason, Macfarland,
and EQstis.
	We have also received information in the same manner that the
blockade is considered to be ineffectiveentirely soby the members
of the cabinet.
	After a full consideration of the question, we have not as yet deemed
it advisable to again formally press the recognirioii of the Confederate
States upon the Government of Great Britain at this moment, but will
await a favorable opportunity to do so. At this time we think it would
meet with rejection, at least before the answer of the Government of
the United States to the demand which the British Government has
made for apology and restitution shall be received.
	The C. S. S. Nash rule arrived at Southampton on the 21st ultimo,
slightly injured in her wheelhouses and deck by adverse storms experi-
enced on her passage. We learn from Lieutenant Pegram that on the
19th ultimo,in 70 fathoms of water, he captured and burned the ship
Harvey Birch, of 1,500 tons burden, owned in New York, and in ballast
from Havre. She was valued at $125,000. Her officers and crew were
taken to Southampton and landed there. It is understood that the
Nashville will be allowed to repair.
	The U. S. armed steamship James A dyer has been in the waters
of England for the last few weeks. It was asserted that she
caine to seek for the Nashville. She was allowed to repair damages
sustained on her voyage and to coal. Since then she has been hover-
ing about the coast. We understand that, in reply to a demand as to
her object by an officer of the admiralty, that the commander avowed
that he was instructed to seize Messrs. Mason and Slidell wherever he
could find them at sea, and that he expected to take them out of the
West India mail packet. We were further informed that the United
States officer was then advised that such an act would be considered
as an insult to the British flag.
	We have been advised that the opinion of the Emperor of the French
and that of his ministry is, that the affair of the Trent is a great out.
rage npozi the British flag

Page 157

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	157

	We have enclosed extracts from various Paris journals, all taking
the same view.
We are, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servants,
W.	L. YANCEY.
P.	A. HOST.
A.	DUDLEY MANN.
Hon. 11. M. T. HUNTER,
Secretary of AS~tate, Confederate States of America.



Letter from Hon. 3. K, Mason, C. S. commissioner at London, to tho Duke of Somerset,
expressing obligations to the British naval authorities for kindness shown to himself and
colleagues.

109 PICCADILLY, February 13, 1862.
	Mv LORD DUKE: I can not refrain, on arriving in England, from
expressing to your grace and to the lords of the admiralty the grateful
sense I entertain of the kindness and hospitality received from the
naval authorities of Great Britain everywhere on our late protracted
voyage to this country, a feeling, I know, that is equally entertained by
my colleague, Mr Slidell
Mr. Eustis.	.	, and by our secretaries, Mr. Macfarland and
	To Captain Hewett, commander of her Majestys ship 1~iua1do, and to
all his officers, this acknowledgment is especially due. Their courtesy,
consideration, and most generous hospitality were unremitting, and
under the circumstances of a tempestuous and prolonged voyage, we
much fear, greatly to their personal inconvenience.
	To Admiral Mime we are under great obligations for our courteous
and hospitable reception at Bermuda, and particularly for his marked
kindness in expediting our passage to St. Thomas.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your graces most obedient
servant,
J.	M. MASON.
His Grace the DUKE OF SOMERSET.





Letter from the secretary of the British Admiralty to Hon. 3. K. Mason, C. S. commissioner at
London, acknowledging receipt of letter of thanks to the Duke of Somerset.


ADMIRALTY, February 15, 1862.
	SIR:	I have received and laid before my lords commissioners of the
admiralty your letter of the 13th instant, addressed to the Duke of
Somerset, bearing testimony to the kindness and hospitality which you
state that yourself and Messrs. Slidell, Macfarland, and Eustis have
received from her Majestys naval officers during your recent voyage
from the United States to this country.
	My lords will communicate the purport of your letter to Vice-Admiral
Sir Alexander Milne and the other officers concerned.
I am, sir, your most obedient servant,
W.	G. ROMAINE.

J.	M. MASON, Esq.,
109 Piccadilly

Page 158

158	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
Correspondence respecting the seizure of Messrs. Mason, Slidell, Macfarland, and Enstis, laid

before Parliament in 1862.

The Secretary of the [British] Admiralty to Mr. Hammond.

ADMIRALTY [LONDONI, November 27, 1861.

	SIR:	J am commanded by my lords commissioners of the admiralty
to send you herewith, for the information of Earl Russell, a copy of a
letter, dated 9th instant, from Commander Williams, the agent for
mails on board the contract steamer Trent, detailing the circumstances
under which Messrs. Mason and Slidell, commissioners from the so-
styled Confederate States of America to this country and France, and
their secretaries, were forcibly taken out of the Trent by an armed
party of officers and men from the U. S. ship of war San Jacinto on
the 8th instant in the Bahama Channel.
	I am, etc.,	~. G. ROMAINE.

E.	HAMMOND, Esq.

[Enclosure.]

Commander Williams [R. N.] to Captain Patey [R. N.].

TRENT, at Sea, November 9, 1861.
	SIR:	There devolves on me the painful duty of reporting to you a
wanton aggression on this ship by the U. S. war screw steamer San
Jacinto, carrying a broadsde of seven guns and a shell pivot gun of
heavy caliber on the forecastle, which took place on the 8th instant in
the Bahama Channel, abreast of the Paredon light-house.
	The Trent left Havana at 8p. m. on the 7th instant, with her Majestys
mails for England, having on board a large freight of specie, as well
as nnmerous l)assengers, amongst whom were Messrs. Mason and
Slidell, the former accredited with a special mission from the Confed.
crate States to the Government of Great Britain, and the latter to the
French Government, with their respective secretaries, Messrs. Macfar-
land and Enstis.
	Shortly after noon on the 8th a steamer having the appearance of a
man-of war, but not showing colors, w~as observed ahead hove to. We
immediately hoisted our ensign at the peak, but it was not responded
to until, on nearing her at 1:15 p. in., she fired a round shot from her
pivot gun across our bows, and showed American colors. Our engines
were irnmediatelyslowed, and we were still approaching when she dis-
charged a shell from her pivot gun immediately across our bows,
exploding half a cables length ahead of us. We then stopped, when
an officer, with an armed guard of marines, boarded us, and demanded
a list of passengers, which demand being refused, the officer said he
had orders to arrest Messrs. Mason, Slidell, Macfarland, and Eustis,
and that he had sure information of their being passengers in the Trent.
Declining to satisfy him whether such persons weme on board or not,
Mr. Slidell stepped forward and announced that the four persons he
had named were then standing before him under British protection,
and that if they were taken on board the San Jacinto they must be
taken vi et armis, the commander of the Trent and myself at the same
time protesting against this illegal act, this act of piracy, carried out
by brute force, as we had no means of resisting the aggression, the San
Jacinto being at the time on our port beam, about 200 yards off, her
ships company at quarters, ports open, and tompions out

Page 159

OPEliATIONS OP TIlE CRUISERSIJNIoN.	159

	Sufficient time being given for such necessaries as they might require
being sent to them, these gentlemen were forcibly taken out of the
ship, and then a further demand was made that the commander of the
Treat shonld proceed on board the &#38; n Jacinto; bnt as he expressed his
determination not to go unless forcibly compelled likewise, this latter
demand was not carried into execution.
	At 3:40 we parted company, and proceeded on our way to St. Thomas,
on our arrival at which place I shall deliver into the consul duplicates
of this letter to Lord Lyons, Sir Alexander Milne, Commodore 1)un lop,
and the consul-general at Havana.
I have, etc.,
RICHARD WTILLJAMS
Commander, Royal Navy, Admiralty Agent in Charge of Mails.
	Captain PATEY.




Earl Russell to Lord Lyons.

FOREIGN OFFICE [LONDON], November 80, 1861.
	M~ LORD: Intelligence of a very grave nature has rea~hed her
Majestys Government. This intelligence was con veye(l officially to the
knowledge of the admiralty by Commander Williams, agent for mails
on board the contract steanier Trent.
	It appears from the letter of Commander Williams, dated I~oyal
mail contract packet , , November 9 that t
	Trent at sea	.,	he Trent left
Havana on the 7th instant with her Majestys mails for England, hav-
ing on board numerous passengers. Commander Williams states that
shortly after noon on the 8th a steamer having the appearance of a
man-of war, but not showing colors, was observed ahead. 011 nearing
her at 1:15 p. m. she fired a round shot from her pivot gun across the
bows of the Trent, and showed American colors. While the Tren t was
approaching her slowly the American vessel discharged a shell across
the bows of the Trent, exploding a half cables length ahead of her.
The Trent then stopped, and an officer, with a large armed guard of
marines, boarded her. The officer demanded a list of the passengers,
and compliance with this demand being refused, the officer said he had
orders to arrest Messrs. Mason, Slidell, Macfarland, and Enstis, and
that he had sure information of their being passengers in the Trent.
While some parley was going on npon this matter, Mr. Slidell stepped
forward an(l told the American officer that the four persons he had
named were then standing before him. The commander of the Trent
and Commander Williams protested against the act of taking by force
out of the Trent these four passengers, then under the protection of the
British flag. But the San Jacinto was at that time only 200 yards from
the Trent, her ships company at quarters, her ports open, and tompions
out. Resistance was therefore ont of the question, and the four gentle-
men before named were forcibly taken out of the ship.
	A further demand was made that the commander of tIme Trent should
proceed on uoard the San Jacinto; but he said lie would not go unless
forcibly compelled likewise, and this demand was not insisted upon.
It thus appears that certain individuals have been forcibly taken from
on board a British vessel, the ship of a imeutral power, while such ves-
sel was pnrsuing a lawful and innocent voyage, an act of violence which
was an affront to the British flag and a violation of international law

Page 160

160	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	Her Majestys Government, bearing in mind the friendly re1ation~
which have long subsisted between Great Britain and the United States
are willing to believe that the U. S. naval officer who committed,
this aggression was not acting in compliance with any au tnority from
his Government, or that if he conceived himself to be so authorized,
he greatly misunderstood the instructions which he had received. For
the Government of the United States must be fully aware that the
British Government could not allow such an affront to the national
honor to pass without full reparation, and her Majestys Government
are unwiliing to believe that it could be the deliberate intention of the
Government of the United States nnnecessarily~to force into discussion
between the two governments a question of so grave a character, and
with regard to which the whole British nation would be sure to enter-
taiii snch unanimity of feeling.
	Her Majestys Government therefore trust that when this matter
shall have been brought under the consideration of the Government of
the United States that Government will, of its own accord, offer to the
British Government such redress as alone would satisfy the British
nation, namely, the liberation of the four gentlemen and their delivery
to your lordship, in order that they may again be placed under British
protection, and a suitable apology for the aggression which has been
committed. Should these terms not be offered by Mr. Seward, you will
propose them to him.
	Your are at liberty to read this dispatch to the Secretary of State,
and if he shall desire it you will give him a copy of it.
I am, etc.,
RUSSELL.
	Lord LyoNs.




Earl Ru88eli to Lord Lyon8.


FOREIGN OFFICE [LONDONi, November 30, 1861.
	Mv LORD: Mr. Adams called upon me yesterday at the foreign
office, by my desire.
	I asked him whether he had any information or instructions which
could throw light on the transactions which had occurred on board the
Trent. I said the cabinet was about to meet, and I should be glad to
receive any information which might assist their deliberations on this
painful subject. Mr. Adams said he had no instructions or informa-
tion which could throw light on what had occurred, nor did he know
whether the captures which had taken place on board the Trent had
the sanction of his Government or not.
	I said in that ease there would be no good, and there might be some
harn~,in discussing with him the merits of the question itself; but I
wished hini to repeat to me what he had told me some days ago in regard
to the instructions to the commander of the James Adger.
	Mr. Adams then said that he had seen the instructions to the com-
mander of the James Adger; that they directed him to look out for the
Nashville, a Confederate vessel, which it was supposed would convey
Messrs. Mason and Slidell to England. He was directed, if that sup-
position should not turn out to be the fact to return to the United
States, but to keep an eye on any merchant vessel proceeding from this
country with contraband of war. There was nothing in the instruction

Page 161

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	161

directing the commander to interfere with any foreign ship bringing
Messrs. Mason and Slidell to Europe. Mr. Adams then took his leave.
I am, etc.,
RUSSELL.
Lord LYONS.


EarZ Russell to Lord Lyons.

[Extract.]

FOREIGN OFFICE [LONDON, November 30, 1861.
In my previous dispatch of this date I have instructed you, by com-
mand of her Majesty, to make certain demands of the Government of
the United States.
Should Mr. Seward ask for delay in order that this grave and painful
matter should be deliberately considered, you will consent to a delay
not exceeding seven days. If at the end of that time no answer is given,
or if any other answer is given except that of a compliance with the
demands of her Majestys Government, your lordship is instructed to
leave Washington with all the members of your legation, bringing with
you the archives of the legation, and to repair immediately to London.
her however, you should be of the opinion that the requirements of
	Majestys Government are substantially complied with, you may
report the fact to her Majestys Government for their consideration,
and remain at your post until you receive further orders.
You will communicate with Vice-Admiral Sir A. Milne imniediately
upon receiving the answer of the American Government, and you will
send him a copy of that answer, together with such observations as
you may think fit to make. You will also giv.e all the information in
your power to the governors of Canada, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick,
Jamaica, Bermuda, and such other of her Majestys possessions as may
be within yonr reach.
RUSSELL.
Lord LYONS.


Earl Russel to the lords commis8ioners of the ad iralty.

FOREIGN OFFICE [LONDON], November 30, 1861.
Mv LORDS: I have received the Queens command to transmit to
your lordships the instructions which are to be sent to-day to Lord
Lyons.
The Queen directs that copies of these instructions should be sent to
Vice-Admiral Sir A. Milne. Vice-Admiral Sir A. Milue should be
directed to communicate fully with Lord Lyons, and to take such meas-
ures as circumstances may seem to require. The vice-admiral will
refrain from any act of hostility against the sea or land forces of the
United States, except in selfdefeuse. But as the act of wanton vio-
lence and ontrage which has been committed makes it not unlikely that
other sudden acts of aggression may be attempted, Vice-Admiral Sir
A. Milne will take care not to place his ships in positions where they
may be surprised or comnianded by batteries on land of a superior
force. Tie should not detach more than one line-of-battle ship amid two
frigates on the expedition to Vera Cruz, and lie should dispose of the
rest of his force in the manner in which it may prove most serviceable
in case of hostilities. He will look to the safety of her Majestys p05-
sessions in North America and the West Indies, and he will in all
-	123Al

Page 162

162	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

respects execute all such commands as he may receive from your lord-
ships to guide him in the performance of his arduous duties.
	Your lordships will, no doubt, be of opinion that Admiral Milne
ought not himself to go to Vera Cruz; and in that case an officer
acquainted with the Mexican coast may be the most fitting person to
act with Sir Charles Wyke in the discharge of duties on that coast.
I am, etc.,
RUSSELL.
	The LORDS COMMJSSIOT~IERS OF THE ADMIRALTY.



Lord Lyons to Earl Russell.

[Extract]

WASHINGTON, November 19, 1861. (Received December 2.)
	I have already informed your lordship by telegraph that Mr. Mason
and Mr. Slidell, who are believed to have been on their way to England
and France as commissioners from the so-called Confederate Govern-
ment, were taken by force out of the British mail packet Trout by the
U. S. ship San Jacinto i-n the Bahama Channel and brought to this
country as prisoners.
	The copious extracts from American newspapers which I have the
honor to enclose will make your lordship acquainted with such partic
ulars concerning this unfortunate affair as have transpired here. They
will also convey to you a tolerably correct idea of the impression which
it has made upon the American public.
	The evidence of the English witnesses on board the Trent will prob-
ably reach London about the same time as the present dispatch; with-
out a knowledge of that evidence it is impossible for me to form any
correct opinion on the character of the transaction. I have accord-
ingly deemed it right to maintain the most complete reserve on the
subject. To conceal the distress which I feel would be impossible, nor
would. it, if possible, be desirable; but I have expressed no opinion on
the questions of international lawinvolved~ I have hazarded no con-
jecture as to the course which will be taken by her MajesLys Govern-
ment. On the one hand, I dare not run the risk of compromising the
honor and inviolability of the British flag by asking for a measure of
reparation which may prove to be inadequate. On the other hand, I
I am scarcely less nuwilling to incur the danger of rendering a satis-
factory settlement of the question more difficult by making a demand
which may turn out to be unnecessarily great. In the present imper-
fect state of my information, I feel that the only proper and prudent
course is to wait for the orders which your lordship will give with a
complete knowledge of the whole case.
	I am unwilling, moreover, to deprive any explanation or reparation
which the U. S. Government may think it right to offer of the grace of
being made spontaneously. I know, too, that a demand from me would
very much increase the main difficulty which the Government would
feel in yielding to any disposition which they may have to make amends
to Great Britain. The American people would more easily tolerate a
spontaneous offer of reparation made by its Government from a sense
of justice than a compliance with a demand for satisfaction from a
foreign minister.
LYONS.
Earl RUSSELL

Page 163

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS.UNION.	163
The Secretary of the [British] admiralty to Mr. Hammond.

ADMIRALTY [LONDON], December 2, 1861.
(Received December 3.)
	SIR:	With reference to my letter of the 27th ultimo, enclosing a copy
of one dated the 9th of November, from Commander Williams, relative
to the forcible removal of Messrs. Mason and Slidell and their secreta-
ries from the Trent, contract steamer, by an armed party of officers and
men from the San Jacinto, U. S. ship of war, 1 am commanded by my
lords comluissioners of the admiralty to send you herewith, for the
information of Earl Russell, a copy of a memorandum made by Coin-
mander Williams at the admiralty on the 27th ultimo an
further information on the above-mentioned subject. , d containing
My lords did not send a copy of this memorandum at the time it was
written, as Commander Williams on that day made a verbal statement
at the foreign office; but it is now transmitted, as it may be useful
hereafter, as showing the actual force used on the occasion, and the
strong I)rotest made against it by Commander Williams.
I am, etc.,
W.	(I. ROMAINE.
E.	HAMMOND, Esq.

[Enclosure.

Memorandum made by Commander Williams [B. N.], at the [British] admiralty, on the
27th of November, 1861, relative to the forcible seizure of Messrs. Mason and Slidell
and their secretaries from on board the Tree t.


	On Mr. Slidells announcing that the four persons inquired for were
then standing before Lieutenant Fairfax, under British protection, and
that if taken on board the San Jacinto they must be taken vi et armis,
I addressed that officer iii the following terms:
	In this ship I am the representative of her Britannic Majestys Government, and
in the name of that Government I protest against this illegal act, this violation of
international law, this act of piracy, which you would not dare to attempt on a
ship capable of resisting such aggression.

	It was then that Lieutenant Fairfax waved his hand toward the San
Jacinto, and additional force was sent. The marines were drawn up
at the entry port, bayonets fixed; and on Miss Slidells uttering an
hysterical scream on her being separated from her fatherthat is, on his
breaking the window of his cabin and thrusting his body through to
escape fromn the dmstressmng scene of forcible separation from his family
they rushed imito the passage at the charge. There were upward of 60
armed men in all, and the aforesaid gentlemen wem c thero taken out of the
ship, an armed guard on either side of each seizing them by the collar
of the coat. Every inducement was held out, so far as importunate
persuasion would go, to prevail on Mrs. Slidell and Mrs. Eustis, with
the son and three daughters of the former, to accompany their hus-
bands, but as they did not wish their wives to be subjected to imprison-
ment (Lieutenant Fairfax having replied to Mrs. Slidells inquiry as to
their disposal if they did accompany them, that they would be sent to
Washington) they remained on board the Trent, and came on to
England in La Plata.
	The ships getting somewhat farther apart than when this affair corn-
menced, a boat came from the San Jacinto to request us to ap~)roach
nearer; to which I replied that they had the same power as ourselves,
and if they wished to be nearer to us they had their own remedy

Page 164

	164	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		            [Translatioul

Al. T*ouvenel to M. Mercier. (Communicate4 to Earl Russell by Count Flahault
December 6.)

PARIS, Dece~n~cr 3, 1861.
	SIR: The arrest of Messrs. Mason and Slidell on board the English
packet Trent by an American cruiser has produced in France, if not
the same feeling as in England, at least a sensation of extreme aston-
ishment. Public opinion is at once directed to the legality and conse-
quences of such an act, and the impression made has not been doubt-
Inl for an instant. The act has appeared so much at variance with the
ordinary rules of international law that to the public mind the weight of
the responsibility seems to fall exclusively upon the commander of the
&#38; tn Jacinto. We can not yet tell whether this supposition is correct and
the Government of the Emperor owes it to itself to examine from this
standpoint the question raised by the taking of the two passengers from
the Trent. The desire to aid in ~)reve11ting a conflict, imminent, per-
haps, between two powers for whom it entertains equally friendly feel-
ings, and the (luty of maintaining certain principles, essential to the
security of neutrals, with a view to patting its own flag beyond injury,
have, after mature reflection, convinced the Government that nuder
the circumstances it can not remain entirely silent.
	If, to our regret, the Cabinet of Washington ~vere disposed to approve
of I he conduct of the commander of the San Jacinto,it would beby
considering Messrs. Mason and Slidell as enemies or in looking upon
them only as rebels. In either case there would be an extremely
unfortnnate forgetfulness of the principles on which we have always
found the United States in accord with us.
	By what right, in t~ct, did the American erniser, in the first case,
arrest Messrs. Mason and Slidelh The United States has recognized
with us in all treaties between the two countries that the protection of
the flag is extended to all persons found under it, enemies of one or
both parties, unless actually in time military service of the enemy.
Messi~s. Mason and Slidell were then, by virtue of this principle, which
we have found no difficulty in making part of our treaties of friend-
ship and commerce, perfectly free nnder the neutral flag of England.
	Unquestionably no person will pretend that these persons can be
considered as contraband of war. What constitutes contraband of
war, it is true, is not yet precisely established; the limits are not abso-
lutely the same for all powers. But in that which relate to persons
the particular stipulations met with in the treaties concerning military
mcii define clearly the character of those who can be seized as bellig-
erents. It is needless to explain that Messrs. Mason and Slideli cami
not be classed among such persons. It only remains, then, to plead in
explanation of their seiznre the pretext that Mason and Slidell were
bearers of official dispatches of the enemy. Here let us recall a cir-
cumustance which govermms all this affiuir and renders unjustifiable the
conduct of the American cruiser. The Treat was imot destined for a
port of either belligerent. It left a neutral country, with passengers
and cargo, embarked for a neutral port. If it is admissible that, ummder
such circumstances, the neutral flag does not entirely protect the per-
sons and merchandise that it carries, its exemption would be but an
idle word; the commerce and navigation of the third powers would
constantly suffer from innocent or even indirect relations with one or the
other of the belligerents. These latter would no longer have power to
exercise neutrality with entire impartiality to interdict all acts of ho

Page 165

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNIoN.	165

tility, and would l)ring to the freedom of commerce and navigation
restrictions of which modern interiiational law refuses to admit the
legality. We would thus return to some vexatious practices, against
which, at other periods, no power has more decidedly protested than
the United States.
	If the Cabinet of Washington wishes to consider the two persoiis
arrested only as rebels whom it has the right to seize, the question, to
place it on another ground, can not be decided in favor of the conduct
of the commander of the &#38; tn Jacinto. There was in this case a disre-
gard of the principle which makes a ship a part of the territory of the
nation whose flag it carries, and consequently a violation of the immu-
nity which allows a foreign sovereign to exercise jurisdiction. It is
not necessary to recall the energy with which, oii all occasions, the
Government of the United States has defended this immunity ~nd
the right of asylum.
	Not wishing to enter into a fuller discussion of the question raised
by the capture of Messrs. Mason an(i Slidell, I have said enough, I
think, to show that the Cabinet of Washington would be aware that it
could not, without violaPon of the principles for which all the neutral
powers are eqyially interested in securing respect, aH(l without placiiig
itself in contradiction to its own conduct np to this time, give approval
to the action of the commander of the San Jacin to. In this state of
affairs it should not hesitate, according to our opinion, as to the
decision to adopt. Lord Lyons has already been instructed to present
demands for satisfaction from the English Government, which, as
formulated, consist in asking the immediate liberation of the persons
taken from the Trent, and in making such explanations as will efface
from this act the offense done to the British flag.
	The Federal Government will be inspired by a just and high.minded
sentiment in complying with these demands. It is impossible to con-
ceive to what end or for what interest it would risk provoking by a
different attitude a rupture with Great Britain. Seeing in such an act
only a deplorable complication of all the difficulties with which the
Cabinet of Washington has already to contend, and a precedent of a
nature to seriously unsettle all the powers remaining outside the
actual conflict, we desire to give proof of our loyal friendship for the
Cabinet of Washington by not allowing it to remain in ignorance of
our views on this subject. I desire you. sir, to take the earliest oppor-
tunity to speak candidly to Mr. Seward, and, if he so desire, give him
a copy of this dispatch.
Receive, etc.,
THOUVENEL.
M.	MERCIER.


Earl Russell lo Lord Lyons.

FOREIGN OFFICE [LoNDoN], December 6, 1861.

	M~ LORD: Count Flahault read to me today a dispatch addressed
to him by M. Thouvenel, covering one from M. Thouvemiel to M. Mer-
cier. In this letter M. Thouvenel reviews with great ability the ques-
tion of the captures on board the Trent. He begins by saying that
the transaction appeared to be so much at variance with the ordinary
rule8 of international law that the impression on J)ublic opinion in
France was that the commander of the San Jacinto could alone be
responsible for it. If, however, the Cabinet of Washington should b

Page 166

166	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

disposed to approve the conduct of that officer, it could do so only on
one or other of the grounds of Mr. Masou and Mr. Slidell being enemies
or being rebels, and in either case it would depart greatly from those
principles on which hitherto France and the United States had been
agree(1.
	As regards the former case, that, namely, of the two gentlemen
beiiig consi(lered enemies, the United States in their treaties with
France had recognized flint f lie freedom of the flag extended to all per-
sons, except military or naval officers actually in the service of the
enemy, found under it; and according to this principle Mr. Masou and
Mr. Slidell were free under the neutral flag of Eiiglaid.
	Neither could those gentlemen be deemed contraband of war, for
although no general rule as to contraband was universally admitted,
the character of persons liable to be considered as contraband was, at
all events, clearly detiiied, and Mr. Mason and Mr. Slidell did not bear
that character.
	Then, again, as regards the allegation that they were bearers of dis-
patches of the enemy, the conduct of the U. S. cruiser was wholly
unjustifiable. The Trent was not destined for a port of either of
the belligerents; she was on her voyage to a neutral country, with
cargo and passengers which she bad embarked imm a neutral country;
and if it were assnmimed that immider such circumstances the neutral flag
did not protect the ~~assengers and cargo, the immunity of that flag
would be an idle word, and restrictions ~vholly immadmissible according
to the 1)Linciples of muodern times would thereby be imposed on the free-
dom of commerce and navigation.
	As regards time latter case, that, imamnely, of Mr. Mason and Mr. SIB
(tell being considered rebels M Timouvenel observes that neither in this
case was the couduct of the commander of the San Jacinto justifiable,
for he will have disregarded the received principle that a vessel forms
part of the territory of the state whose flag it bears, and is therefore
exempt from foreign jurisdiction.
	Under these circumstances Mr. Thonvenel considers it impossible
that the Cabinet of Washington shouhd approve the conduct of the com-
mander of the San Jacinto, and accordingly, in his opinion, it can not
hesitate as to the decision which it should adopt. it should acquiesce
in the demand which Lord Lyons was instructed to make Pzw the imme-
diate liberation of the two gentlemen, and for such explanation as may
efface the offense done to the British flag. It is impossible to conceive
what object or interest it could have in provoking by a different course
a rupture with Great Britain. Such a rupture France would consider
not only as lamentable with reference to the difficulties with which the
Cabinet of Washingtomi has already to contend, but also as establish-
ing a precedent calculated seriously fo disquiet all powers who are
standing aloof from the conflict now going on; and M. Thouvenel con-
siders that he is now furnishmiiig a fresh proof of tlme friendship of France
for the United States by iiot allowing the Cabinet of Washingcon to
remain in ignorance of her sentiments on the present crisis.
	Your lordship will perceive from tlmis summary, which I am enabled
to give you, of the instructions addressed by M. Thouvenel to M. Mer-
cier, that the French minister is directed to give the moral support of
his Government to the representations and requirements which you are
instructed to make.
I am, etc.,
RUSSELL.

	Lord LYONS

Page 167

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	167

Lord Lyons to Earl Russell

[Extract.]


WASHINGTON, November 22, 1861. (Received December 7.)
	I transmit to your lordship herewith copies of the articles on tlie
capture of Messrs. Mason and Slidell which have been published in
the principal newspapers since I had the honor to address to you my
dispatch of the 19th ultimo. To a person accustomed to the strong
language of the American press these articles appear moderate and
even subdued in tone. At all events, the line taken by the greater part
of the newspapers is rather to argue that Great Britain has not the
right to complain, and therefore will not do so, than to defy her to make
objection, right or wrong. I wish I could add that the argument was
generally carried on in courteous language or in a friendly spirit.
	Your lordship may observe in several of the enclosed extracts from
the Americami newspapers assertions concerning language stated to
have been held by me in private conversation. These assertions are
entirely without foundation. I have avoided the subject of the capture
on board the Trent as much as possible, and have said no more than
that it is an untoward event which I very much regret. I have, neither
publicly nor privately, expressed any opinion whatever on the question
of imiternational law, or on the conrse likely to be taken by her Maj-
estys Government. I have had no communication on the subject,
verbal or written, official or private, with any member of the Govern-
ment of the United States.
	Messrs. Mason and Slidell, with their secretaries, Messrs. Macfar-
land and Enstis, have been sent to Fort Warren, in Boston harbor.
LYONS.
Earl RUSSELL.



Lord Lyons to Earl Russell.

[Extract.]

WASHINGTON, December 3, 1861. (Received December 16.)
	The second session of the Thirty-seventh Congress of the Uuited
States began yesterday at noon. The business done in the Senate was
of a merely formal character. In the House of Representatives several
motiomis were made for the confiscation or emancipation of slaves whose
masters are not loyal to the United States.
	Resolutions requesting the President to confine Mr. Mason and Mr.
Slidell in felons cells and treat them as prisoners convicted of infa-
mous crimes were unanimously adopted with applause. Your lordship
is aware that in retaliation for the treatment to which the crews of the
captured Confederate privateers have been subjected, President Davis
has treated in the same manner an equal number of the prisoners of
war who are in his hands.
	A resolution was adopted tendering the thanks of Congress to Cap-
tain Wilkes for his brave, adroit, and patriotic conduct in arresting and
detaining Messrs. Masou and Slidell.
	The authentic account of the proceedings will not be published in
time for me to transmit a copy to your lordship to-day.

LYONS.
Earl RUSSELL

Page 168

	168	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		           Earl Russell to Lord Lyons.

FOREIGN OFFICE ~LONDON], December 19, 1861.
	M~ LORD: Mr. Adams came to me to-day, at the Foreign Office, at
3 oclock. He said he caine to ask two questions which concerned him-
self personally. 1 interrupted him to ask whether what he was going
to say was by order of his Government or from his own sense of what
he ought to do. Mr. Adams answered that the proceeding was entirely
his owii, but that he had with him a dispatch from Mr. Seward which
he was authorized to read to me if he should think fit to do so. It
appeared, he said, from that dispatch that the Government of Wash-
ington had not authorized the capture of two insurgents, Mason and
Slidell, and that the United States Government stood quite uncom-
mitted at the time of sending the dispatch.
	1 said that if the dispatch did not enter into any controversy with
regard to the case of Messrs. Mason and Slidell, I should be glad to
bear it read. Mr. Adams then proceeded to read the dispatch. It
commenced by referring with approbation to a speech made by Mr.
Adams at the Mansion House, ai~d proceeded to notice with gratifica-
tion the sentiments which had been expressed by Lord Palmerston in
a conversation he had held with Mr. Adams in reference to the James
Adger.
	Mr. Seward then proceeds to declare that the Americaii Government
value highly the friendship of Great Britain, and lament that certain
causes of difference have arisen, owing, as Mr. Seward imagines, to
the want of attention on the part of the British Goverumemit to the
performance of the duties incumbent on a friendly power during the
struggle in which the United States are engaged. Mr. Seward gives
as instance the case of communication to the Confederate authorities
by Mr. Bunch; the admission of the Sumter, privateer, to purchase
coal and provisions at Trinidad, in distinction, as he said, to the con-
duct of every European state; and the arrival in the Southern States
of vessels laden with aims and ammunition from England.
	INIr; Seward then proceeds to the case of the Trent, from which ship
the two insurgeiits had been taken. He affirms that no instructions
were given to Captain Wilkes which, authorized him to act in the man-
ner he had done. Neither had the United States Government com-
mitted itself with regard to any decision upon the character of that
act. The Government would wait for any representation the British
Government might make before coming to any positive decision. He
desires that, if Mr. Adams shall think it desirable, this dispatch shall
be read to me and also to Lord Palmerston.
	In answer to Mr. Adams, I touched upon most of the points treated
of in the dispatch. I did not think it necessary, however, to recur to
the case of Mr. Bunch.
	With regard to the Confederate privateer, I said that I could not see
that our conduct had been different from that of France and flolland
or of Spain. The Sumter had been refused coal from the Government
stores at Trinidad, but had been allowed to get coal and provisions
from private merchants. The same thing had taken place at Marti-
nique and at Cura~ao. I did find that the rule of twenty-four hours
had been observed in practice, but there would be little difficulty in
coming to an agreement on this point.
	In regard to the export of arms and ammunition to the Confederate
States, I had lately read the opinion of the attorneygeneral, and
believed it was in entire conformity with the provisions of the foreign

Page 169

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	169

enlistment act; warlike equipment of a vessel was prohibited, the
loading a vessel with arms and ammunition was not prohibited. But
n point of fact, a much greater amount of arms and ammunition had
been sent to the Federal States, where there was no obstacle to the
export or the import, than to the ports of the Confederate States, which
were blockaded. Mr. Adams admitted this to be the fact, and said he
had refrained from pressing a more rigorous compliance with the for-
eign-enlistment act for this reason.
	1 then stated to Mr. Adams the substance of the two dispatches I
had written to Lord Lyons on the subject of the Trent.
	I told him that in a private letter I had directed Lord Lyons to talk
the matter over with Mr. Seward two days before reading to him the dis-
patch. Mr. Adams asked whether the direction to Lord Lyons to leave
Washington iii seven days was in the dispatch to be read. I said it
wasnot, and thatin case Mr. Seward should ask what would be the conse-
quence of a refnsal on his part to comply with our conditions, Lord
Lyons was to decline to answer that question iii order not to have the
appearance of a threat. I said that I thought the explanation that
the Government had not authorized the seizure would stand iu the
place of an apology.
	But the essential condition was, that Mr. Mason and Mr. Slidell
should be given up to Lord Lyons.
	Mr. Adams said that if the matter was stated to Mr. Scward in the
manner I had explained, he hoped for an amicable termination of the
difference; he thought that if the Government of the United States
insisted on maintaining the act of Captain Wilkes, the United States
would be abaudomming their doctrine and adopting ours.
	Mr. Adams asked me a further question, which he said I might
decline to answer; it was whether, if Lord Lyons came away, a declara-
tion of war would be the immediate consequence. I told him nothing
was decided on that point; we should wait for the reply from America,
and then decide upon our course. I stated to Mr. Adams the substaimce
of M. Thouvenels (lispatch to M. Mercier as I had heard from M. Fla-
hault. Mr. Adams said that the French Government had always been
very consistent in their maintenance of the rights of neutrals. He
added that he could not pay our Government the same compliment.
	I said that I would dispense with compliments if this matter could
be amicably arranged.
	We parted on very friendly terms.
I am, etc.,
RUSSELL.
Lord LYONS.



Lord Lyons to Earl Rttssell.


WASHINGTON, December 9, 1861. (Received December 23.)
	M~ LORD: I have the honor to enclose a copy of a letter* from the
Secretary of the Navy to Captain Wilkes, dated the 30th of November,
which has been published in the newspapers. It is in substance the
same as the paragraph on the subject of the seizure of Messrs. Mason
and Slidell which occurs in the report from the same secretary sent
to Congress with the Presidents message.

~See ante, page 148

Page 170

170	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	It expresses emphatic approval of the proceeding, but says that
the forbearance shown in not capturing the vessel must not be permitted
to constitute a precedent.
I have, etc.,
LYONS.
Earl RUSSELL.


Count Rechberg to 211. de Hulsemaun. (Communicated to Earl Russell by Count
Apponyi December 24.)
[Confidential.]

VIENNA, December 18, 1861.
	The difference that has occurred between the Government of the
United States and that of Great Britain as the resnlt of the arrest of
Messrs. Mason and Slidell, made by the captain of the American man-
of-war &#38; tn Jacinto on the English packet Trent, has not failed to claim
the serious attention of the Imperial cabinet.
	The greater the importance we attach to the maintenance of friendly
relations between the United States and England the more we have
canse to regret the occurrence of an incident which adds so grave a
complication to a sitnation already harassed with difficulties.
	Without having the intention of now entering into the examination
of the right, we can not fail to recognize that, according to the ideas of
international law adopted by all the powers, and which the American
Government itself has often taken for its rule of conduct, England
can not possibly avoid, in the l)resent case, protesting against the
insult done to her flag and asking for it a jnst reparation. There seems
to us in the demands presented on this subject by the cabinet of St.
James nothing that can give offense to the Cabinet of Washington, and
that the latter will be able to act with fairiiess and moderation without
sacrificing its dignity in the least.
	Being governed by the rules which guide international relations as
well as the considerations of an enlightened policy, rather than main-
festatiQn.s produced by an excessive excitement of national feeling, the
Government of the United States, we hope, will give to its delibera-
tions the dispassionate consideration demanded by the gravity of the
case and will deem it advisable to take a stand which, by preventing a
rupture of the relations existing between two great states to whom
Austria is equally bound by friendly ties, will be calculated to avert
the grave agitations which the contingency of war can not fail to bring
with it, as much for the contending parties as for the interests of the
whole world.
	Be pleased, sir, to bring the foregoing considerations to the attention
of Mr. Seward and inform ns how our communication is received by
the minister.
Receive, etc.,
RECHBERG.
M.	DE IIULSEMANN.


Lord Lyons to Earl Russell.

[Extract.]

WASHINGTON, December 13, 1861.
(Received December 26.)
	It is asserted in the report from Captain Wilkes that Mr. Mason and
Mr. Shidell had been presented to the captain-general of Cuba by he

Page 171

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	171

Britannic Majestys consul~general.~~ The same assertion had appeared
previously in most of the American newspapers. Having received,
yesterday, a dispatch from Mr. Crawford, the consul-general, directly
contradicting it, I thonght it desirable to inform the Government of
the United States officially that it was erroneons. I accordingly
addressed a note to Mr. Seward, of which and of the dispatch from
Mr. Crawford upon which it was founded I do myself the honor to
enclose copies.
	I have also the honor to enclose a copy of a note which I have just
received from Mr. Seward, in which he thanks me for contradicting
the assertion concerning Mr. Crawford, and states that my promptness
in doing so is a new and gratifying proof of my desire for the preserva-
tion of harmonious relations between the British and American gov-
ernments.
LYONS.
Earl RUSSELL.
[Enclosure 1.1

Lord Lyons to Mr. Seward.

WASHINGTON, December 12, 1861.
	SIR: A letter has been published in the newspapers which purports
to have been addressed on the 16th of November Last, by Captain Wilkes,
of the U. S. S. San Jacinto, to the Secretary of the Navy. It contains
the following statement:
	They (Mr. Mason and Mr. Slidell) had. been presented to the captain-general of
Cuba by her Britannic Majestys consul-general.
	The writer of the letter appears to have been misinformed. I am able
to contradict the statement on the authority of Mr. Crawford, the consul-
general himself. In a dispatch which I have received from him to-day
he declares officially with reference to assertions to the same effect
made in American newspapers that he neither presented nor accom-
panied Mr. Mason and Mr. Slidell to the captain-general.
I have, etc.,
LYONS.
	W. H. SEWARD, Esq.

[Enclosure 2.]

Consul-General Crawford to Lord Lyons.

HAVANA, December 2, 1861.
	M~ LORD: I have seen in the American papers a statement which,
as published by a press so infamous as that of the United States has
become, I consider wholly unworthy of my notice; but under present
circumstances, as much importance appears to attach to the false infor-
mation that has l)Cen giveu respecting me in connection with Messrs.
Slidell and Mason, I think it necessary to state to your lordship that
I neither presented nor accompanied those gentlemen to the captain-
general, in uniform ~r otherwise.
	Mr. Slidell is an acquaintance of mine since 1825, and Mr. Masons
brother was my very intimate friend when he was secretary to the
U. S. legation in Mexico, under Mr. Poinsett, long ago. 1 certainly did
myself the pleasure of calling on those gentlemen, as strangers, and
showed theum such civilities as were in my power, but I never thought
of rendering them any official services. I presume they were full

Page 172

172	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

aware that had they needed any such assistance I could not have given
it, and none was ever applied for.
I have, etc.,
Jos. T. CRAWFORD.
	Lord LYONS.
[Enclosure 3.j

Mr. Seward to Lord Lyons.

WASHINGTON, December 13, 1861.
	M~ LORD: I thank your lordship for your note of the 12th instant,
contradicting, on the authority of Mr. Crawford, her Britannic Maj-
estys consul-general at Havana, the report that that gentleman had
presented Messrs. Mason and Slidell to his Excellency the governor-
general of Cuba.
	This prompt proceeding on your part to remove what might have
been a subject of discontent on the part of this Government with your
own is a new and gratifying proof of your lordships desire for the
preservation of harmonious relations between the governjnents of her
Britannic Majesty and that of the United States.
	I avail myself of this occasion to say that, although I have received
from our consulate at Havana some complaints founded on reports of
conduct on the part of Mr. Crawford unjust towaids the United
States, I have refrained from entertaining them in the absence of some
authentic and reliable evidence.
I have, etc.,
W.	H. SEWARD.
Lord LYONS.


The Secretary of the [British] admiralty to Mr. Hammond.

ADMIRALTY [LONDON December 27, 1861.
	SIR: I am commanded by my lords commissioners of the admiralty
to trapsmit herewith for the information of Earl Russell a copy of the
protest made by the master of the royal mail steamer Trent before her
Majestys consul at St. Thomas on the 14th ultimo, against the pro-
ceedings of the captain of the U. S. ship of war San Jacinto,in forcibly
removing Messrs. Mason and Slidell, the commissioners from the so-
called Confederate States, with their secretaries, from on board the
Trent.
I am, etc.,
C.	PAGET.
E.	HAMMOND, Esq.
LEnclosure.1

PROTEST.

HER BRITANNiC MAJESTYS CONSULATE,
St. Thomas, West Indies.
Be it known that on this 14th of Xovember, 1861, before me, Robert
Boyd Lamb, esq., her Britannic Majestys consul in the island of St.
Thomas, personally appeared James Moir, master of the steamship
Trent, of London, of the burden of 1,856 tons or thereabouts, and
entered a protest declaring as follows:
	That he sailed in the said steamship Trent from Havana, under con-
tract with her Britannic Majestys Government as a mail packet, bound
for St. Thomas, with her Majestys mails, under charge of Commande

Page 173

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	173

Richard Williams, of her Majestys navy, 60-odd passengers, $1,500,000
in specie, and a valuable cargo, on the 7th instant, at 8 a. m.
	That nothing particular occurred till the succeeding day, 8th instant,
at about meridian, when the ship was in the narrow part of the
Bahama Channel, approaching the Paredon Grande light-house, the
coast of Cuba distant about 5 miles, a steamer having the appearance
of a man-of war, but not showing any colors, was observed ahead
hove to. That the British ensign was immediately hoisted on board
the Trent, with the royal mail companys distinguishing flag at the
main, and on approaching the vessel ahead, which still showed no colors,
at 1:05 p. m. she fired a round shot across the ~ bows, and then
hoisted American colors, when the Trents engines were immediately
slowed, and while she was approaching the Americen vessel a shell
was discharged from the latters pivot gun across the Trents bows,
which burst half a cables length ahead of her; the Trents engines
were then stopped, when she was hailed by an officer from the Ameri-
can vessel and ordered ~o heave to. A boat from her then came on
board with arnied boats crew and an armed guard of marines, accompa-
nied by an officer in the uniform of the U. S. Navy, who stated that
the ship was the U. S. war steamer San Jacinto, commanded by Cap-
tain Wilkes, and demanded a list of the passengers on board, which
demand the master of the Trent refused to comply with, on which
refusal a further force was sent for from the San Jacinto, and two more
boats with armed marines and armed boats crews came on board the
Trent.
	That the same officer then stated that he had orders, whatever might
be the consequence, to arrest Messrs. Slidell, Mason, Macfarland, and
Eustis, who he knew were on board the ship. He was then asked by
the master of the Trent what would be his course in case of a refusal
to give up these parties, to which he replied that his orders were to
take the ship in case of necessity. He was then informed by the master
of the Trent that the passengers would not be given up unless such
force was used as could not be resisted on which Mr. Slidell stepped
forward and informed the officer of the San Jacinto that the parties he
demanded were before him under the protection of the British flag, and,
claiming same, they would not consent to be taken out of the ship except
by force of arms. They were then seized by order of the United States
officers, and, after being allowed a short time to collect some necessaries
and separate themselves from their families, they were forcibly dragged
out of the ship by the armed force, notwithstanding the strong and
repeated protest by the master of the Trent and Commander Williams
against an act of hostility and violence coinniiitted on a vessel carrying
the British flag by a ship of war of a nation on terms of peace and
amity with her Britannic Majestys Government; to which protest the
officer of San Jacinto replied that he was obeying his orders to effect
the arrest at all hazards.
	That from the time the first boat was sent to the Trent the San
Jacinto lay on the port beam, about 200 yards off, with her ports open,
her guns (seven broadside iron pivot) run out, tompions out, and crew at
quarters. That the American officer, before leaving the Trent, made a
further demand that the commander of Trent should proceed on board
the San Jacinto. to which the reply was made that he would not leave
the ship unless taken out by force of arms; against all of which illegal,
hostile, and piratical acts, as before detailed, the said James Moir, on
his own behalf as a British subject commanding a British ship engagcd
in the postal service of Her Majesty, and on behalf of all others who

Page 174

174	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

it may concern, did declare to protest, as by these presents he doth
solemnly protest, against all and every persoii and persons, officers
and governments, directly or indirectly concerned in said illegal and
hostile acts, holding them liable for all losses, damages, and conse-
quences of the same. And I, the said consul, at the reqnest of the said
James Moir, master of the said ship Trent, do hereby solemnly protest
against the same in manner and form aforesaid.
	This done, etc., at the port of St. Thomas.
JAMES MOIR,
Master, If. M. S. Trent.

Lord Lyons to Earl Russell.

WASHINGTON, December 19, 18G1.
(Received January 1, 1862.)
	M~ LORD: The messenger, Seymour, deli vered to me at half-past
11 oclock last night yonr lordships dispatch of the 30th ultimo, speci-
fying the reparation required by her Majest~~ s Government for the
soiznre of Mr. Mason and Mr. Slidell and their secretaries on board
the royal mail steamer Trent.
	I waited oii iVir. Seward this afternoon at the State Department, and
acquainted him in general terms with the tetior of that dispatch. I
stated iii particular, as nearly as possible in your lordships words,
that the only redress which conld satisfy her Majestys Government
and her Majestys people would be the immediate delivery of the
prisoners to me, in order that they might again be placed under
British protection, and, moreover, a suitable apology for the, aggression
which had been committed.
	I added that her Majestys Goveriunent hoped that the Govern-
ment of the United States would of its own accord offer this repara-
tion; that it was in order to facilitate such an arrangement that I had
come to him without any written demand, or even any written paper
at all in my hand; in that if there was a prospect of attaining this
object I was willing to be guided by him as to the conduct on my part
which would render its attainment most easy.
	Mr. Seward received my communication seriously and with dignity,
but without any manifestation of dissatisfaction. Some further con-
versation ensued in consequence of questions put by him, with a view
to ascertain the exact character of the dispatch. At the conclusion
he asked me to give him to-morrow to consider the question and to
communicate with the President. On the day after he should, he said,
be ready to express an opinion with respect to the communication I
had made. In the meantime he begged me to be assured that he was
very sensible of the frieiidly and conciliatory manner in which I had
made it.
I have, etc.,
LYONS.
Earl RUSSELL.

Count Bernstorff to Baron Gerolt. (Communicated to Earl Russell by Count Branden

burg January 2,1862.)

[Translation.]

BERLIN, December 25, 1861.
	M. LE BARON: The maritime operations undertaken by President
Lincoln against the Southern seceding States could not from their ver

Page 175

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	175

commencement but fill the Kings Government with apprehensions lest
they should result iu possible prejudice to the legitimate interests of
neutral powers.
	These apprehensions have unfortunately been fully justified by the
forcible seizure on board the neutral mail packet the Trent, and the
abdnction therefrom of Messrs. Slidell and Mason by the commander
of the U. S. man-of-war the San facinto.
	This occurrence, as you can well imagine, has produced in England
and throughout Europe the most profound sensation, and thrown not
cabinets only, but also public opinion, into a state of the most excited
expectation. For, although at present it is England only which is
immediately concerned in the matter, yet, on the other hand, it is one
of the most important and universally recognized rights of the neutral
flag which has been called into question.
	I need not here enter into a discussion of the legal side of the ques-
tion. Public opinion in Europe has, with singular unanimity, pro-
nounced in the most positive manner for the injured party. As far as
we are concerned we have hitherto abstained from expressing ourselves
to you upon the subject, because in the absence of any reliable informa-
tion we were in doubt as to whether the captain of the A3an Jacinto
in the course taken by him had been acting under orders from his
Government or not. Even now we prefer to assume that the latter
was the case. Should the former supposition, however, turn out to
be the correct one, we should consider ourselves under the necessity
of attributing greater importance to the occnrrence, and to our
great regret we should find ourselves consti~ained to see in it not an
isolated fact, but a public menace offered to the existing rights of all
neutrals.
	We have as yet no certain information as to the demands made by
England to the American Cabinet, upon the acceptance of which the
maintenance of peace appears to depend. As far, however, as our
information reaches on the subject we are convinced that no conditions
have been put forward by the British Government which could justly
offend President Lincolns sense of honor.
	His Majesty the King, filled with the most ardent wishes for the
welfare of the United States of North America, has commanded me to
advocate the cause of peace with President Lincoln, through your
instrumentality, to the utmost of my power. We should reckon our-
selves fortunate if we could in this wise succeed in facilitating the
peaceful solution of a conflict from xvhich the greatest dangers might
arise. It is possible, how ever, that the President has already taken
his decision and announced it. Whatever that decision may be, the
Kings Government, when they reflect upon the uninterrupted rela-
tions of friendship and amity which have existed between Prussia
and the United States ever since the latter were founded, will derive
satisfaction from the thought of having laid with the most unreserved
candor their views of this occurrence before the Cabinet of Washing-
ton and expressed the wishes which they entertain in connection
with it.
	You will read this dispatch without delay to the Secretary of State
for foreign affairs, and should he desire it you will give him a copy of
it.	I shall await your report upon the instructions contained in this
dispatch, and I avail, etc.
BERNSTORFF.

Baron GEROLT

Page 176

	176	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		            Earl Russell to Lord Lyons.

FOREIGN OFFICE [LONBoNI, January 4, 1862.

	M~ LORD: On Tuesday last Count Brandenburg called upon me at
the foreign office and read to me a dispatch of Count Bernstorff on
the subject of the Trent affair. The Prussian Government unequivo-
cally condemn the conduct of Captain Wilkes, and express a hope that
the President of the U nited States will comply with the proposals of
her Majestys Government. I will send you by the next mail a copy
of this dispatch.
	At a later hour Baron Bruntiow called upon me and read me an
extract of a letter from Prince Gortschakoff equally positive in con-
demnation of Captain Wilkes, and equally confideiit of the justice of
onr request for reparation.
I am, etc.,
RUSSELL.

Lord LYONS.




Lord Lyons to Earl Russell.

WASHINGTON, December 23,1861.
(Received January 7, 1862.)
	M~ LORD: In conformity with the understanding to which I caine
with Mr. Seward on the 19th instant, I waited upon him the day before
yesterday, for the purpose of reading to him your lordships dispatch
of the 30th ultimo on the subject of the seizure of Mr. Mason and Mr.
Slidell and their secretaries on board the Trent.
	On presenting myself, Mr. Seward said that he had occupied himself
as unremittingly as the great amount of business he had to transact
allowed in studying the question. He would confess that he had ~iot
yet completely mastered it. He would not make me a formal request
to postpone the communication of your lordships dispatch, but he
would say that it would be a great convenience to him personally, and
a great advantage in all respects, if I would consent to do so. The
next day was Sunday. Could I not defer the communication until
Monday 0?
	I answered that I would, as he wished it, put off reading the dispatch
to him till Monday, provided he would fix an early hour for receiving
me on that day. I should, I said, be obliged to send off my messenger
with dispatches for your lordship on Monday afternoon. It was impos-
sible that I could allow another packet to sail without reporting to your
lordship that I liad executed your orders. Mr. Seward promised to
receive me as early as 10 oclock on Monday morning.
	I accordingly went to him soon after that hour this (Monday) morn-
ing, read the dispatch to him, and at his request left with him a copy
of it. He said that he would immediately lay it before the President,
and that I should without delay receive a communication with regard
to it.
I have, etc.,
LYONS.

Earl RUSSELL

Page 177

OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.	177

Lord Lyon8 to Earl Ru88ell.

[Extract.]

WASHINGTON, December 27, 1861.
(Received January 9, 1862.)
	The day before yesterday A. Mercier received the dispatch from M.
Thouvenel which was read to your lordship by Couut Flahault on the
6th instant. Lie immediately carried it to the State Department, and
on being informed that Mr. Seward was at a Cabinet council, requested
the Assistant Secretary to send it into the council room without delay.
	A. Mercier has throughout displayed great alacrity and good will,
and (if I may be allowed to express au opinion on that point also) excel-
lent judgment in giving the moral support of France to the demands of
her Majesty~s Government.
LYONS.
Earl RUSSELL.



Lord Lyons to Earl Russell.

WASHINGTON, December 27, 1861.
(Received January 9, 1862.)
	M~ LORD: I have the honor to enclose a copy of a note which I have
this morning received from Mr. Seward, in answer to your lordships
dispatch of the 30th of last month, relative to the removal of Mr. Mason,
Mr. Slidell, Mr. Macfarland, and Mr. Eustis from the British mail
packet Trent.
	The note contains a very long and very elaborate dissertation on the
questions of international law ilivolved in the case. I have not time
before departure of the messenger to weigh the arguments or to estimate
precisely the force of the expressions used; but as Mr. Seward admits
that reparation is due to Great Britain and consents to deliver the
four prisoners to me, I consider that the demands of her Majestys
Government are so far substantially complied with that it is my duty,
in obedience to your lordships commands, to report the facts to her
Majestys Governmen-- for their consideration, and to remain at my post
until I receive further orders.
	I have the honor to enclose a copy of the answer which I have made
to Mr. Sewards note. I have confined myself to stating that I will
forward a copy of it to her Majestys Government, and that I will con-
fer with Mr. Seward personally on the arrangements to be made for the
delivery of the prisoners to me.
I have, etc.,
LYONS.
Earl RUSSELL.
[Endosure 1.1

Mr. Seward to Lord Lyons.


DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, December 26, 1861.
	Mv LORD: Earl Russells dispatch of November 30, a copy of which
you have left with me at my request, is of the following effect, namely:
	That a letter of Commander Williams, dated royal mail contract
packet boat Irent, at sea, November 9, states that that vessel left
123A1

Page 178

178	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

ilavana on the 7th of November with her Majestys mails for England,
having on board numerous passengers. Shortly after noon on the 8th of
November the U. S. war steamer San Jacinto, Captain Wilkes, not show-
ing colors, was observed ahead. That steamer, on being neared by the
Trent, at 1 oclock 15 minutes in the afternoon, fired a round shot from a
pivot gun across her bows, and showed American colors. While the Trent
was approaching slowly towards the San Jacinto she discharged a shell
across the Trents bows, which exploded at half a cables length before
her. The Trent then stopped, and an officer, with a large armed guard
of marines, boarded her. The officer said he had orders to arrest lUessrs.
Mason, Slidell, Macfarland, and Eustis, and had sure information that
they were passengers in the Trent. While some parley was going on
upon this matter, Mr. Slidell stepped forward and said to the American
officer that the four persons he had named were standing before him.
The commander of the Trent and Commander Williams protested against
the act of taking those four passengers out of the Trent, they then
being under the protection of the British flag; but the San Jacinto was
at this time only 200 yards distant, the ships company at quarters, her
ports open, and tompions out, and so resistance was out of the question.
The four persons before named were then forcibly taken out of the
ship. A further demand was made that the commander of the Trent
should proceed on board the San Jacinto; but he said he would not go
unless forcibly compelled likewise, and this demand was not insisted
upon.
	Upon this statement Earl Russell remarks that it thus appears that
certain individuals have been forcibly taken from on board a British
vessel, the ship of a neutral power, while that vessel was pursuing a
lawful and innocent voyagean act of violence which was an affront to
the British flag and a violation of international law.
	Earl Russell next says that her Majestys Government, bearing in
mind the friendly relations which have long subsisted between Great
Britain and the United States, are willing to believe that the naval
officer who committed this aggression was not acting in compliance
with any authority from his Government, or that if he conceived him-
self to be so authorized he greatly misunderstood the instructions which
he had received.
	Earl Russell argues that the United States must be fully aware that
the British Government could not allow such an affront to the national
honor to pass without full reparation, and they are willing to believe
that it could not be the deliberate intention of the Government of the
United States unnecessarily to force into discussion between the two
governments a question of so grave a character, and with regard to
which the whole British nation would be sure to entertain such una-
nimity of feeling.
	Earl Russell, resting upon the statement and the argument which I
have thus recited, closes with saying that her Majesty~s Government
trusts that when this matter shall have been brought under the consid-
eration of the Government of the United States it will of its own
accord offer to the British Government such redress as alone could
satisfy the British nation, namely, the liberation of the four prisoners
taken from the Trent and their delivery to your lordship, in order that
they may again be placed under British protection, and a suitable
apology for the aggression which has been committed. Earl Russell
finally instructs you to propose these terms to me, if I should not first
offer them on the part of this Government.
	This dispatch has been submitted to the President. The Britis

Page 179

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	179

Government has rightly conjectured what it is now my duty to state,
that Captain Wilkes, in conceiving and executing the proceeding in
question, acted upon his own suggestions of duty, without any direction
or instruction, or even foreknowledge of it, on the part of this Govern-
ment. No direction had been given to him or any other naval officer
to arrest the four persons named, or any of them, on the Trent, or on
any other British vessel, or on any other neutral vessel, at the place
where it occurred or elsewhere. The British Government will justly
infer from these facts that the United States not only have had no pur-
pose, but even no thought, of forcing into discussion the question which
has arisen, or any other which could affect in any way the sensibilities
of the British nation.
	It is true that a round shot was fired by the San Jacinto from her
pivot gun when the Trent was distanily approaching; but as the facts
have been reported to this Government, the shot was nevertheless inten-
tionally fired in a direction so obviously divergent from the course of
the Trent as to be quite as harmless as a blank shot, while it should be
regarded as a signal.
	So also we learn that the Trent was not approaching the San Jacinto
slowly when the shell was fired across her bows, but, on the contrary,
the Trent was, or seemed to be, moving under full head of steam, as if
with a purpose to pass the San Jacinto.
	We are informed dso that the boarding officer (Lieutenant Fairfax)
did not board the Trent with a large armed guard, but he left his marines
in his boat when he entered the Trent. Be stated his instructions from
Captain Wilkes to search for the four persoiis named in a respectful
and courteous though decided manner, and he asked the captain of the
Trent to show his passenger list, which was refused. The lieutenant,
as we are informed, did not employ absolute force in transferring the
passengers, but he used just so much as was necessary to satisfy the
parties concerned that refusal or resistance would be unavailing.
	So also we are informed that the captain of the Trent was not at-any
time or in any way required to go on board the San Jacinto.
	These modifications of the case as presented by Commander Williams
are based upon our official reports.
	I have now to remind your lordship of some facts which doubtless
were omitted by Earl Bussell, with the very proper and becoming
motive of allowing them to be brought into the case on the part of the
United States in the way most satisfactory to this Government.
	These facts are, that at the time the transaction occurred an insur-
rection was existing in the United States, which this Government was
engaged in suppressing by the employment of land and naval forces;
that in regard to this domestic strife the United States considered
Great Britain as a friendly power, while she had assumed for herself the
attitude of a neutral, and that Spain was considered in the same light,
and had assumed the same attitude as Great Britain.
	It had been settled by coi-respondence that the United States and
Great Britain mutually recognized, as applicable to this local strife,
these two articles of the declaration made by the Congress of Paris, in
1856, viz, that the neutral or friendly flag should cover enemys goods
not contraband of war, and that neutral goods not contraband of war
are not liable to capture under an enemys flag. These exceptions of
contraband from favor were a negative acceptance by the parties of the
rule hitherto everywhere recognized as a part of the law of nations,
that whatever is contraband is liable to capture and confiscation in all
cases

Page 180

180	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	James M. Mason and Macfarland are citizens of the United States
and residents of Virginia. John Slidell and George Eustis are citizens
of the United States and residents of Louisiana. It was well known
at Havana, wheu these parties embarked on the Trent, that James M.
Mason was proceeding to England in the affected character of minister
plenipotentiary to the Court of St. James, under a pretended commis-
sion from Jefferson Davis, who had assumed to be President of the
insurrectionary party in the United States, and Macfarland was going
with him in a like unreal character of secretary of legation to the pre-
tended mission. John Slidell,in similar circumstances, was going to
Paris as a pretended minister to the Emperor of the French; and
George Eustis was the chosen secretary of legation for that simulated
mission. The fact that these persons had assumed such character
has been since avowed by the same Jefferson Davis in a pretended
message to an unlawful and insurrectionary congress. It was, as we
think, rightly presumed that these ministers bore pretended credentials
and instructions, and such papers are in the law known as dispatches.
We are informed by our consul at Paris that these dispatches having
escaped the search of the Trent, were actually conveyed and delivered
to emissaries of the insurrection in England.
	Although it is not essential, yet it is proper to state, as I do also
upon information and belief, that the owner and agent, and all the
officers of the Trent, including the commander, Williams, had knowl-
edge of the assumed characters and purposes of the persons before
named when they embarked on that vessel.
	Your lordship will now perceive that the case before us, instead of
presenting a merely flagrant act of violence on the part of Captain
Wilkes, as might well be inferred from the incomplete statement of it
that went up to the British Government, was undertaken as a simple,
legal, and customary belligerent proceeding by Captain Wilkes to arrest
and capture a neutral vessel engaged in carrying contraband of war
for the use aiid benefit of the insurgents.
	The question before us is, whether this proceeding was authorized by
and conductea according to the law of nations. It involves the follow-
ing enquiries:
	1. Were the persons named and their supposed dispatches contra-
band of war~
	2. Might Captain Wilkes lawfully stop and search the Trent for
these contraband persons and dispatches ~
	3.	Did he exercise that right in a lawful and proper manner?
	4.	Having found the contraband persons on board, and in presumed
possession of the contraband dispatches, had he a right to capture
the persons?
	5.	Did he exercise that right of capture in the manner allowed and
recognized by the law of nations?
	If all these enquiries shall be resolved in the affirmative, the British
Government will have no claim for reparation.
	I address myself to the first inquiry, namely: Were the four persons
mentioned, and their supposed dispatches, contraband?
	Maritime law so generally deals, as its professors say, in rent, that
is, with property, and so seldom with persons that it seems a straining
of the term contraband~~ to apply it to them. But persons as well
as property may become contraband, Lince the word means broadly
contrary to proclamation, prohibited, illegal, unlawful. All writers
and judges pronounce naval or military persons in the service of the
enemy contraband. Yattel says, War allows us to cut off from a

Page 181

OPERATIOI~S OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	181

enemy all his resources, and to hinder him from sending ministers to
solicit assistance; and Sir William Scott says, You may stop the
ambassador of your enemy on his passage. Dispatches are not less
clearly contraband, and the bearers or couriers who undertake to carry
them fall under the same condemnation.
	A subtlety might be raised whether pretended ministers of au usurp-
ing power, not recognized as legal by either the belligerent or the neu-
tral, could be held to be contraband. But it would disappear on being
subjected to what is the true test in all cases, namely, the spirit of the
law. Sir William Scott, speaking of civil magistrates who were arrested
and detained as contraband, says:
	It appears to me on principle to be b~ut reasonable that when it is of sufficient
importance to the enemy that such persons shall be sent out on the public service,
at the public expense, it should afford equal ground of forfeiture against the vessel
that may be let out for a purpose so intimately connected with the hostile operations.

	I trust that I have shown that the four persons who were taken from
the Trent by Captain Wilkes and their dispatches were contraband of
war.
	The second enquiry is, whether Captain Wilkes had a right, by the
law of nations, to detain and search the Trent.
	The Trent, though she carried mails, was a contract or merchant
vessel, a common carrier for hire. Maritime law knows only three
classes of vesselsvessels of war, revenue vessels, and merchant ves-
sels. The Trent falls within the latter class. Whatever disputes have
existed concerning a right of visitation or search in time of peace none,
it is supposed, has existed in modern times about the right of a bellig-
erent in time of war to capture contraband in neutral and even friendly
merchant vessels and of the right of visitation and search in order to
determine whether they are neutral and are documented as such accord-
ing to law of nations.
	1 assume in the present case what, as 1 read British authorities, is
regarded by Great Britain herself as true maritime law, that the circum-
stance that the Trent was proceeding from a neutral port to another
neutral port does not modify the right of the belligerent captor.
	The third question is, whether Captain Wilkes exercised the right of
search in a lawful and proper manner. If any doubt hung over this
point, as the case was l)resented in the statement of it adopted by the
British Government, I think it must already have passed away before
the modification of that statement which I have already submitted.
	I proceed to the fourth enquiry, namely, having found the suspected
contraband of war on board the Trent, had Captain Wilkes a right to
capture the same? Such a capture is the chief, if not the only, recog-
nized object of the permitted visitation aiid search. The principle of
the law is, that the belligerent exposed to danger may prevent the con-
traband persons or things from applying themselves or being applied
to the hostile uses or purposes designed. The law is so very liberal in
this respect that when contraband is found on board a neutral vessel,
not only is the contraband forfeited, but the vessel which is the vehicle of
its passage or transportation, being tainted, also becomes contraband,
and is subject to capture and confiscation.
	Only the fifth question remains, namely, did Captain Wilkes exercise
the right of capturing the contraband in conformity with the law of
nations?
	It is just here that the difficulties of the case begin.
	What is the manner which the law of nations prescribes for dis-
posing of the contraband when you have found and seized it on boar

Page 182

182	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

of the neutral vessel ~ The answer would be easily found if the ques-
tion were, what shall you do with the contraband vessel? You must
take or send her into a convenient port and subject her to a judicial
prosecution there in admiralty, which will try and decide the questions
of belligerency, neutrality, contraband, and capture. So again you
would promptly find the same answer if the question were, what is the
manner of proceeding prescribed by the law of nations in regard to the
contraband, if it be property, or things, or material, or pecuniary value ~?
But the question here concerns the mode of procedure in regard, not to
the vessel that was carrying the contraband, nor yet the contraband
things which worked the forfeiture of the vessel, but to contraband
persons.
	The books of law are dumb; yet the question is as important as it
is difficult. First, the belligerent captor has a right to prevent the
contraband officer, soldier, sailor, minister, messenger, or courier from
proceeding in his unlawful voyage and reaching the destined scene of
his injurious service. But, on the other hand, the person captured
may be innocent; that is, he may not be contraband; he, therefore,
has a right to a fair trial of the accusation against him. The neutral
state that has taken him under its flag is bound to protect him, if he is
not contraband, and is, therefore, entitled to be satisfied upon that
important question. The faith of that state is pledged to his safety,
if innocent, as its justice is pledged to his surrender, if he is really
contraband. Here are conflicting claims, involving personal liberty,
life, honor, and duty. Here are conflicting national claims, involving
welfare, safety, honor, and empire. They require a tribunal and a
trial. The captors and the captured are equals, the neutral and the
belligerent state are eqnals.
	While the law authorities were found silent, it was suggested at an
early day by this Government that you should take the captured per.
sons into a convenient port and institute judicial proceedings there to
try the controversy. But only courts of admiralty have jurisdiction
in maritime cases, and these courts have formulas to try only claims to
contraband chattels, but none to try claims concerning contraband per.
sons. The courts can entertain no proceedings and render no judg-
ment in favor of or against the alleged contraband men.
	It was replied, all this is true, but you can reach in those courts a
decision which will have the moral weight of a judicial one by a cir-
cuitous proceeding. Convey the suspected men, together with the sus-
pected vessel, into port, and try there the same question whether the
vessel is contraband. You can prove it to be so by proving the sus-
pected men to be contraband, and the court must then determine the
vessel to be contraband. If the men are not contraband the vessel
will escape condemnation. Still there is no judgment for or against the
captured persons; but it was assumed that there would result from
tho determination of the court concerning the vessel a legal certainty
concerning the character of the men.
	This course of proceeding seemed open to many objections. It ele-
vates the incidental, inferior, private interest into the proper place of
the main, paramount, public one, and possibly it may make the for-
tunes, the safety, or the existence of a nation depend on the accidents
of a merely personal and pecuniary litigation. Moreover, when the
judgment of the prize court upon the lawfulness of the capture of the
vessel is rendered, it really concludes nothing, and binds neither the
belligerent state nor the neutral, upon the great questions of the dis-
position to be made of the captured contraband persons. That ques

Page 183

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	183

tion is still to be really determined, if at all, by diplomatic arrange-
ment or by war.
	One may reasonably express his surprise when told that the law of
nations has furnished no more reasonable, practical, and perfect mode
than this of determining questions of such grave import between sov-
ereign powers. The regret we may feel on the occasion is, neverthe-
less, modified by the reflection that the difficulty is not altogether
aiiomalous.
	Similar and equal deficiencies are found in every system of municipal
law, especially in the system which exists in the greater portion of
Great Britain and the United States. The title to personal property
can hardly ever be resolved by a court without resorting to the fiction
that the claimant has lost and the possessor has found it, and the title
to real estate is disputed by real litigants under the names of imagin-
ary persons. It must be confessed, however, that while all aggrieved
nations demand, and all impartial ones concede, the need of some form
of judicial process in determining the character of contraband persons,
no other form than the illogical and circuitous one thus described
exists, nor has any other yet been suggested. Practically, therefore,
the choice is between that judicial remedy or no judicial remedy what.
ever.
	If there be no judicial remedy the result is that the question must
be determined by the captor himself on the deck of the prize vessel.
Very grave objections arise against such a course. The captor is
armed, the neutral is unarmed. The captor is interested, prejudiced,
and perhaps violent- the neutral, if truly neutral, is disinterested, sub-
dued, and helpless. The tribunal is irresponsible while its judgment
is carried into instant execution. The captured party is compelled to
submit, though bound by no legal, moral, or treaty obligation to acqui-
esce. Reparation is distant and problematical, and depends at last on
the justice, magnanimity, or weakness of the state in whose behalf and
by whose authority the capture was made. Out of these disputes
reprisals and wars necessarily arise, and these are so frequent and
destructive that it may well be doubted whether this form of remedy is
not a greater social evil than all that could follow if the belligerent
right of search were universally renounced and abolished forever. But
carry the case one step farther. What if the State that has made the
capture unreasonably refuse to hear the complaint of the neutral, or
to redress it? In that case the very act of capture would be an act of
warof war begun without notice, and possibly entirely without provo-
cation.
	I think all unprejudiced minds will agree that imperfect as the pres-
ent judicial remedy may be supposed to be, it would be as a general
practice better to follow it than to adopt the summary one of leaving
the decision with the captor and relying upon diplomatic debates to
review his decision. Practically it is a question of choice between law
with its imperfection and delays and war with its evils and dessola-
tion 5.
	Nor is it ever to be forgotten that neutrality, honestly and justly
preserved, is always a harbinger of peace, and therefore is the common
interest of nations, which is only saying that it is the interest of human-
ity itself.
	At the same time it is not to be denied that it may sometimes hap-
peii that the judicial remedy will become impossible, as by the ship-
wreck of the prize vessel, or other circumstances which excuse the cap-
tor from sending or taking her into port for confiscation. In such 

Page 184

184	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

case the right of the captor to the custody of the captured persons, and
to dispose of them, if they are really contraband, so as to defeat their
unlawfrtl purposes, can not reasonably be denied. What rule shall be
applied in such a case~ Clearly the captor ought to be required to
show that the failure of the judicial remedy results from circumstances
beyond his control and without his fault, otherwise he would be allowed
to derive advantages from a wrongful act of his own.
	In the present case Captain Wilkes, after capturing the contraband
persons and making prize of the Trent, in what seems to us a perfectly
lawful manner, instead of sending her into port released her from the
capture and permitted her to proceed with her whole cargo upon her
voyage, He thus effectually prevented the judicial examinatioti which
might otherwise have occurred.
	If now the capture of the contraband persons and the capture of the
contraband vessel are to be regarded not as two separable or distinct
transactions under the law of nations, but as one transaction, one cap-
ture only, then it follows that the capture in this case was left uiifin-
ished, or was abandoned. Whether the United States have a right
to retain the chief public benefits of it, namely, the custody of captured
persons, on proving them to be contraband, will depend upon the pre-
liminary question, whether the leaving of the transaction unfinished
was necessary or whether it was unnecessary and therefore voluntary.
If it was necessary Great Britain, as we suppose, must of course waive
the defect, and the consequent failure of the judicial remedy. On the
other hand, it is not seen how the United States can insist upon her
waiver of that judicial remedy if the defect of the capture resulted from
an act of Captain Wilkes, which would be a fault on their own side.
	Captain Wilkes has presented to this Government his reasons for
releasing the Trent:
	I forebore to seize her [he says] in consequence of my being so reduced in officers
and crew, and the derangement it would cause innocent persons, there being a large
number of passengers who would have been put to great loss and inconvenience, as
well as disappointment, from the interruption it would have caused them in not being
able to join the steamer from St. Thomas to Europe. I therefore concluded to sacri-
fice the interest of my officers and crew in the prize, and suffered her to proceed, after
the detention necessary to effect the transfer of those commissioners, considering I
had obtained the important end I had in view, and which affected the interests of
our country and interrupted the action of the Coiifederates.

	I shall consider, first, how these reasons ought to affect the action of
this Government; and, secondly, how they ought to be expected to affect
the action of Great Britain. The reasons are satisfactory to this Gov-
ernment, so far as Captain Wilkes is concerned. It could not desire
that the San Jacinto, her officers and crew, should be exposed to dan-
gers and loss by weakening their number to detach a prize crew to go on
board the Trent. Still less could it disavow the humane motive of pre-
venting inconveniences, losses, and, perhaps, disasters to the several
hundred innocent passengers found ~n board the prize vessel.
	Nor could this Government perceive any ground for questioning the
fact that these reasons, though apparently incongruous, did operate in
the mind of Captain Wilkes and determine him to release the Trent.
Human actions generally proceed upon mingled and sometimes con-
flicting motives, He measured the sacrifices which this decision would
cost. It manifestly, however, did not occur to him that beyond the
sacrifice of the private interests (as he calls them) of his officers and
crew there might also, possibly, be a sacrifice even of the chief and
public object of his capture, namely, the right of his Government to
the custody and disposition of the captured persons. This Governmen

Page 185

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	185

can not censure him for this oversight. It confesses that the whole sub-
ject caine unforeseen upon the Government, as, doubtless, it did upon
him. Its present convictions on the point in question are the result of
deliberate examination and deduction now made, and not of any impre~-
sion previously formed.
	Nevertheless, the question now is, not whether Captain Wilkes is
justified to his Government in what he did, but what is the present
view of the Government as to the effect of what he has done.
	Assuming, now, for arguments sake only, that the release of the Trent,
if voluntary, involved a waiver of the claim of the Government to hold
the captured persons, the United States could in that case have no hes-
itation in saying that the act which has thus already been approved
by the Government must be allowed to draw its legal consequence
after it.
	It is of the very nature of a gift or a charity that the giver can not,
after the exercise of his benevolence is past, recall or modify its bene-
fits.
	We are thus brought directly to the question whether we are entitled
to regard the release of the Trent as involuntary or whether we are
obliged to consider that it was voluntary.
	Clearly the release would have been involuntary had it been made
solely upon the first ground assigned for it by Captain Wilkes, namely7
a want of sufficient force to send the prize vessel into port for adjudi-
cation. It is not the duty of a captor to hazard his own vessel in order
to secure a judicial examination to the captured party. No large prize
crew, however, is legally necessary, for it is the duty of the captured
party to acquiesce and go willingly before the tribunal to whose juris-
diction it appeals. If the captured party indicate purposes to employ
means of resistance which the captor can not with probable safety to
himself overcome, he may properly leave the vessel to go forward, and
neither she nor the state she represents can ever afterward justly object
that the captor deprived her of the judicial remedy to which she was
entitled.
	But the second reason assigned by Captain Wilkes for releasing the
Trent differs from the first. At best, therefore, it must be held that
Captain Wilkes, as he explains himself, acted from combined senti-
ments of prudence and generosity, and so that the release of the prize
vessel was not strictly necessary or involuntary.
	Secondly, how ought we to expect these explanations by Captain
Wilkes of his reasons for leaving the capture incomplete to affect the
action of the British Government l The observation upon this point
which first occurs is that Captain Wilkes explanations were not made
to the authorities of the captured vessel. If made known to them they
might have approved and taken the release upon the condition of waiv-
ing a judicial investigation of the whole transaction, or they might
have refused to accept the release upon that condition.
	But the case is one not with them, but with the British Government.
If we claim that Great Britain ought not to insist that judicial trial
has been lost because we voluntarily released the offending vessel out
of consideration for her innocent passengers, I do not see how she is to
be bound to acquiesce in the decision which was thus made by us with-
out necessity on our part and without knowledge of conditions or con-
sent on her own. The question between Great Britain and ourselves
thus stated would be a question not of right and of law, but of favor
to be conceded by her to us in return for favors shown by us to her, of
the value of which favors on both sides we ourselves shall be the judge

Page 186

186	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Of course the United States could have no thought of raising such a
question iu any case.
	I trust that I have shown to the satisfaction of the British Govern-
ment, by a very simple and natural statement of the facts and analysis
of the law applicable to them, that this Government has neither medi-
tated, nor practiced, nor approved any deliberate wrong in the trans-
action to which they have called its attention, and, on the contrary,
that what has happened has been simply an inadvertency, consisting
in a departure by a naval officer, free from any wrongful motive, from
a rule uncertainly established, and probably by the several parties
concerned either imperfectly understood or entirely unknown. For
this error the British Government has right to expect the same repara-
tion that we, as an independent state~ should expect from Great Brit-
ain or from any other friendly nation in a similar case.
	I have not been unaware that in examining this question I have fallen
into an argument for what seems to be the British side of it against
my own country, but I am relieved from all embarrassment on that
subject. I had hardly fallen into that line of argument when I discov-
ered that I was really defending and maintaining, not an exclusively
British interest, but an old honored and cherished American cause, not
upon British authorities, but upon principles that constitute a large
portion of the distinctive policy by which the United States have
developed the resources of a continent, and thus becoming a considerable
maritime power, have won the respect and confidence of many nations.
These principles were laid down for us in 1804 by James Madison, when
Secretary of State in the administration of Thomas Jefferson, in
instructions given to James Monroe, our minister to England. Although
the case before him concerned a description of persons different from
those who are incidentally the subjects of the present discussion, the
ground he assumed then was the same I now occupy, and the argu-
ments by which he sustained himself upon it have an inspiration to
me in preparing this reply.
	Whenever [he says] property found in a neutral vessel is supposed to be liable on
any ground to capture and condemnation, the rule in all cases is that the question
shall not be decided by the captor, but be carried before a legal tribunal, where a
regular trial may be had, and where the captor himself is liable to damages for an
abuse of his power. Can it be reasonable, then, or just, that a belligerent com-
mander who is thns restricted and thus responsible in a case of mere property of
trivial amount should be permitted, without recurring to any tribunal whatever, to
examine the crew of a neutral vessel to decide the important question of their
respective allegiance, and to carry that decision into execution by forcing every
individual he may choose into a service abhorrent to his feelings, cutting him off
from his most tender connections, exposing his mind and his person to the most
humiliating discipline, and his life itself to the greatest dangers I Reason, justice,
and humanity unite in protesting against so extravagant a proceeding.

	If I decide this case in favor of my own Government I must disallow
its most cherished principles and reverse and forever abandon its essen-
tial policy. The country can not afford the sacrifice. If I maintain
those principles and adhere to that policy, I must surrender the case
itself. It will be seen, therefore, that this Government could not deny
the justice of the claim presented to us in this respect upon its merits.
We are asked to do to the British nation just what we have always
insisted all nations ought to do to us.
	The claim of the British Government is not made in a discourteous
manner. This Government, since its first organization, has never used
more guarded language in a similar case.
	In coming to my conclusion, I have not forgotten that if the safety
of this Union required the detention of the captured persons, it woul

Page 187

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	187

be the right and duty of this Government to detain them. But the
effectual check and waning proportions of the existing insurrection, as
well as the comparative unimportance of the captured persons them-
selves, when dispassionately weighed, happily forbid me from resorting
to that defense.
	Nor am I unaware that American citizens are not iu any case to be
unnecessarily surrendered for any purpose into the keeping of a foreign
state. Only the captured persons, however, or others who are inter-
ested in them, could justly raise a question on that ground.
	Nor have I been tempted at all by suggestions that cases might be
founa in history where Great Britain refused to yield to other nations,
and even to ourselves, claims like that which is now before ns. Those
cases occurred when Great Britain, as well as the United States, was
the home of generations which, with all their peculiar interests and
passions, have passed away. She could in no other way so effectually
disavow any such injury, as we think she does, by assuming now as
her own the ground upon which we then stood.
	It would tell little for our own claims to the character of a just and
magnanimous people if we should so far consent to be guided by the
law of retaliation as to lift up buried injuries from their graves to
oppose against what national consistency and the national conscience
compel us to regard as a claim intrinsically right.
	Putting behind me all suggestions of this kind, I prefer to express
my satisfaction that, by the adjustment of the present case Ul)Ofl prin-
ciples confessedly American, and yet, as I trust, mutually satisfactory
to both of the nations concerned, a question is finally and rightly set-
tled between them which heretofore, exhausting not only all forms
of peaceful discussion but also the arbitrament of war itself, for more
than half a century alienated the two countries from each other and
perplexed with fears and apprehensions all other nations.
	The four persons in question are now held in military custody at Fort
Warren, in the State of Massachusetts. They will be cheerfully liber-
ated. Your lordship will please indicate a time and place for receiving
them.
avail, etc.,
WILLIAM II. SEwARD.
Lord LYoNS.

[Enclosure 2.]


Lord Lyon8 to Mr. Seward.

WASHINGTON, December 27,1861.
SIR:	I have this morning received the note which you did me the honor
to address to me yesterday, in answer to Earl Russells dispatch of the
30th November last, relative to the removal of Mr. Mason, Mr. Slidell,
Mr. Macfarland, and Mr. Enstis from the British mail packet Trent.
I will, without any loss of time, forward to Her Majesty~s Government
a copy of the important communication which you have made to me.
	I will also, without delay, do myself the honor to confer with you per-
sonally on the arrangements to be made for delivering the four gentle-
men to me,in order that they may be again placed under the protection
of the British flag.
I have, etc.,
LYONS.
W.	II. SEWARD, Esq

Page 188

	188	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		          Lord Lyons to Earl Russell.
		                   [Extract.]

WASHINGTON, December 27, 1861.
(Received January 9, 1862.)
	Before transmitting to me the note of which a copy is inclosed in my
immediately preceding dispatch of to-days date, Mr. Seward sent for
me to the State Department, and said with some emotion that he
thought that it was due to the great kindness and consideration which
I had manifested throughout in dealing with the affair of the Trent
that he should tell me with his own lips that he had been able to effect
a satisfactory settlement of it. He had, however, now been authorized
to address to me a note wliich would be satisfactory to her Majestys
Government.
	In answer to inquiries from me, Mr. Seward said that of course he
understood her Majestys Government to leave it open to the Govern-
ment of Washington to present the case in the form which would be
most acceptable to the American people; but that the note was intended
to be, and was, a compliance with the terms proposed by her Majestys
Government. He would add that the friendly spirit and the discre-
tion which I had manifested in the whole matter, from the day on
which the intelligence of the seizure reached Washington up to the
present moment, had more than anything else contributed to the sat-
isfactory settlement of the question.
	I asked Mr. Seward what arrangements he would wish me to make
for receiving the prisoners. He begged me to speak to him on the sub-
ject to-morrow, for he was at the moment overwhelmed with business,
and particularly with the labor of preparing dispatches for the Euro
pean mail.	LYONS.
 Earl RUSSEL.


Earl Russell to Lord Napier.


[Extract.]


FOREIGN OFFICE [LONDoN], January 10, 1862.
	Her Majestys Government have every reason to be satisfied with the
opinions and the acts of the European powers in regard to the matter
of the Irent.
	The Emperor of the French, without delay, instructed his minister at
Washington to support by argument and by counsel the proposals for
reparation made by her Majesty to the Government of Washington.
The Emperor of Austria and the King of Prussia, as soon as they were
acqnainted with the facts, threw the moral weight of their judgment
into the scale of Great Britain. While her Majestys Government
have been much gratified by these spontaneous marks of adherence
and approval, they have no reason to be dissatisfied with the condnct
of Russia.
	Baron Brunnow wrote at once from London to his colleague at Wash-
ington, condemning in strong terms the conduct of the commander of
the AS~an Jacinto, and advising due reparation to her Majesty~s Govern-
ment by the President of the United States. Prince Gortschakof

Page 189

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	189

wrote also to Washington and to London private letters entirely approv-
ing the step taken by Baron Brunnow. Other powers have expressed
similar sentiments.
RUSSELL.

Lord NAPJER.



Earl Ru8seli to Lord LyOn8.


FOREIGN OFFICE [LONDON], January 10, 1862.

	M~ LORD: In my dispatch to you of the 30th of November, after
informing you of the circumstances which had occurred in relation to
the capture of the four persons takeii frem on board the Trent, I stated
to you that it thus appeared that certain individuals had been forcibly
taken from on board a British vessel, the ship of a neutral power, while
such vessel was pursuing a lawful and innocent voyage; an act of vio-
lence which was an affront to the British flag and a violation of inter-
national law. I concluded by directing you, in case the reparation
which her Majestys Government expected to receive should not be
offered by Mr. Seward, to propose to that minister to make such redress
as alone would satisfy the British nation, namely, first, the liberation
of the four gentlemen taken from on board the Trent, and their deliv-
ery to your lordship iii order that they might again be placed under
British protection; and, secondly, a suitable apology for the aggression
which had been committed.
	I received yesterday your dispatch of the 27th ultimo, enclosing a
note to you from Mr. Seward, which is in substance the answer to my
dispatch of the 30th of November.
	Proceeding at once to the main points in discussion between us, her
Majestys Government have carefully examined how far Mr. Sewards
note, and the conduct it announces, complies substantially with the two
proposals I have recited.
	With regard to the first, viz, the liberation of the prisoners with a
view to their being again placed under British protection, I find that
the note concludes by stating that the prisoners will be cheerfully lib-
erated, and by calling upon your lordship to indicate a time and place
for receiving them. No condition of any kind is coupled with the liber-
ation of the prisoners.
	With regard to the suitable apology which the British Government
had a right to expect, I find that the Government of the United States
distinctly and unequivocally declares that no directions had been given
to Captain Wilkes, or to any other naval officer, to arrest the four per-
sons named, or any of them, on the Trent, or on any other British vessel,
or on any other neutral v
where.	essel, at the place where it occurred or else-
I find further that the Secretary of State expressly forbears to jus-
tify the particular act of which her Majestys Government complained.
If the U. S. Government had alleged that, although Captain Wilkes
had no previous instruction for that purpose he was right in capturing
the persons of the four prisoners and in removing them from the Trent
on board his own vessel, to be afterwards carried into a port of the
United States, the Government which had thus sanctioned the proceed-
ing of Captain Wilkes would have become responsible for the original
violence and insult of the act. But Mr. Seward contents himself with
stating that what has happened has been simply an inadvertency, con

Page 190

190	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

sisting in a departure by a naval officer, free from any wrongful motive,
from a rule uncertainly established, and probably by the several par-
ties concerned either imperfectly understood or entirely unknown. The
Secretary of State goes on to affirm that for this error the British Gov-
ernment has a right to expect the same reparation which the United
States as an independent state should expect from Great Britain or
from any other friendly nation in a similar case.
	Her Majestys Governmeiit, having carefully taken into their consid-
eration the liberation of the prisoners, the delivery of them into your
hands, and the explanations to which I have just referred, have arrived
at the conclnsion that they constitute the reparation which her Majesty
and the British nation had a right to expect. It gives her Majestys
Government great satisfaction to be enabled to arrive at a conclusion
favorable to the maintenance of the most friendly relations between
the two nations. I need not discuss the niodifications in my statement
of facts which Mr. Seward says he has derived from the reports of
officers of his Government.
	I can not conclude, however, without adverting shortly to the dis-
cussions which Mr. Seward has raised upon points not prominently
brought into question in my dispatch of the 30th of November. I
there objected, on the part of her Majestys Government, to that which
Captain Wilkes had done. Mr. Seward, in his answer, points out what
he conceives Captain Wilkes might have done without violating the
law of nations.
	It is not necessary that I should here discuss in detail the five que~-
tions ably argued by the Secretary of State, but it is necessary that I
should say that her Majestys Government differs from Mr. Seward in
some of the conclusions at which he has arrived; and it may lead to a
better understanding between the two nations on several points of
international law which may during the present contest, or at some
future time, be brought into question, that I should state to you for
communication to the Secretary of State wherein those differences con-
sist. I hope to do so in a few days.
	In the meantime it will be desirable that the commanders of the
U.	S. cruisers should be instructed not to repeat acts for which the
British Government will have to ask for redress and which the U. S.
Government can not undertake to justify.
	You will read and give a copy of this dispatch to the Secretary of
State.
	I am, etc.,	RUSSELL.

	Lord LyoNs.



Earl Russell to Lord Lyons.


FOREIGN OFFICE [LONDON], January 11, 1862.

	Mv LORD: In transmitting to your lordship my preceding dispatch
of yesterdays date, I have to state that I read a copy of it this day to
Mr. Adams. When I had done, Mr. Adams said that he considered it
as a dispatch which would be very satisfactory to his Government.
	I said that the paragraph in the dispatch was meant as a reference
to the case of the Eugenia Smith, which seemed to be as similar as possi-
ble to that of the Treat. I concluded that in that case the prisoners
would be at once liberated, a conclusion in which Mr. Adams seemed t

Page 191

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	191

agree; but he declared that he knew iiothing of the case except from
the newspapers.
	J spoke to him of the report that a number of Federal cruisers were
coming to the British Channel, and I expressed a hope that interruption
of British trade would, as far as possible, be avoided.
	Mr. Adams explained that, according to rumor, a complete squadron
of Confederate vessels were about to cruise in the British Channel. The
Nashville, the Sumter, and the Pacific were to form a part of this squad.
roii. He had been informed that both at Liverpool and at Havre many
merchant vessels of the United States were detained, afraid to put to
sea in the face of the expected squadron. The object of his Government
was therefore to protect their own trade, and not to harass ours. I said
I expected that snch would be his answer.
	I allnded to the case of the men landed in Southampton and found
in the docks, being part of the crew of the Tuscarora. He told me he
had warned the Captain of the Tuscarora with regard to any use of
force on the land of a neutral. I then informed him that the captain
of the Tuscarora had received notice in respect to the rule that a bellig-
erent leaving a neutral port should not be pursued by the belligerent
vessel of the opposite power till after the expiration of twenty.four
hours.
	I enclose a correspondence with the board of admiralty and Mr.
Adams on this snbject.
	I then stated that I thought it might be useful to both Governments
if several points in regard to neutrality raised by Mr. Adams dispatch
were to be calmly discussed between us. Some passages in Mr. Sewards
dispatch might lead to the inference that almost every packet passing
between Dover and Calais might be liable to be taken and carried into
New York on the pretext that it carried some emissary of the secession-
ists. But such, I was convinced, was not the meaning of Mr. Seward.
	I sincerely congratulated him on the termination of this affair and
said that if Mr. Hume was right in saying that the reparatioii of injus-
tice is the second honor of a nation, that honor undoubtedly belonged
to the Government of the United States.
I am, etc.,
RUSSELL.

Lord LYONS.




Earl Ru8sell to Lord Lyon8.

FOREIGN OFFICE [LoNDON], January 11, 1862.

	Mv LORD: Your conduct in the important matter of the Trent is
entirely approved by Her Majesty. The discretion and good temper
you have shown have contributed greatly to the success of our repre-
sentations.
	In order to give your lordship by a public document a proof that
you have acted strictly according to the instructions you have received,
I inclose an extract, annexed to this dispatch, of a private letter I
addressed to you on the 1st of December last.
I am, etc.
RUSSELL.

Lord LYONS

Page 192

	192	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		                  [Enclosure.]
		         Earl Russell to Lord Lyons.
		                [ExtractPrivate.]


FOREIGN OFFICE [LONDON], December 1, 1861.

	The dispatches which were agreed to at the cabinet yesterday, and
which I have signed this morning, impose upon you a disagreeable
task. My wish would be that, at your first interview with Mr. Seward,
you should not take my dispatch with you, but should prepare him for
it, and ask him to settle with the President and the Cabinet what
course they would propose.
	The next time you should bring my dispatch and read it to him
fully. If he asks what will be the consequence of his refusing com-
pliance, I think you should say that you wish to leave him and the
President quite free to take their own coarse and that you desire to
abstain from anything like menace.
RUSSELL.
Lord LYONS.



Earl Russell to Lord Lyons.

FOREIGN OFFICE [LONDON], January 11, 1862.
	Mv LORD: I have to call your attention to the case of the Eugenia
Smith, a British vessel, from which two persons were taken by a U. S.
cruiser, and have been since confined iu Fort Lafayette. The circum-
stances are detailed in the newspaper sent to you by Consul Archibald.
	As the principle which has governed the decision of the U. S. Govern-
ment in the case of the Trent appears entirely applicable to this case, I
conclude that the two prisoners will be released at once. Should that
not be the case you will state the circumstance to Mr. Seward, and ask
for the delivery of the prisoners.
	I enclose a copy of the registry of the vessel Eugenia Smith.
I am, etc.,
RUSSELL.
	Lord LyoNs.


Lord Lyons to Earl Russell.

WASHINGTON, December 31, 1861.
(Received January 15, 1862.)
	M~ LouD: After some consultation with Mr. Seward, I have fixed
noon to-morrow as the time, and Provincetown, in the State of Massa-
chusetts, as the place, at which Mr. Mason, Mr. Slidell, Mr. Macfar-
land, and Mr. Eustis are to be restored to the protection of the British
flag.
	I have accordingly requested Commander Hewett, of Th NI. ship
Rinaldo, to go at once with that ship to Provincetown to receive the
four gentlemen. The U. S. Government will convey them thither from
Fort Warren in an American steam vessel.
	Mr. Seward assures me that this arrangement is acceptable to the
Government of the United States, and well calculated to secure the
gentlemen themselves from inconvenience and annoyance

Page 193

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	193

	I have the honor to transmit to your lordship a copy of the dispatch
which I have written to Commander Hewett. Your lordship will per-
ceive that I have requested him to proceed with his passengers, in the
first instance, to Halifax. This will, no doubt, be in conformity with
their own wishes.
	I consider that as the four gentlemen lost their passage on board the
Trent in consequence of their not obtaining from the British flag the
protection which it ought to have afforded to them, we are now bound
to facilitate the prosecution of their voyage to Europe if they request
us to do so. They will, no doubt, on their arrival at Halifax, confer
with the lieutenant-governor respecting their future proceedings.
	It may perhaps be desirable, after all that has occurred, that what-
ever may be the place to which Mr. Mason and Mr. Slidell and their
companions may desire to proceed, they should pursue their voyage in
a Government vessel; for it would be most unfortunate if the whole
question should be reopened by any attempt to capture a vessel with
these gentlemen on board and bring her in for adjudication before au
American prize court. I do not believe that the Government of the
United States would countenance such a proceeding, but an officer of
the U. S. Navy who had not been recently in communication with his
superiors might form a misconception of their wishes and of his own
duty and deem it right to capture a private vessel on the same grounds
on which Captain Wilkes seized the four passengers on board the Trent.
I have, etc.,
LYONS.
Earl RUSSELL.
[Euclosure.J

Lord Lyon8 to Commander Hewett.

WASHINGTON, December 30, 1861.
	SIR: You are no doubt aware that the Government of the United
States has declared that it will cheerfully liberate Mr. Mason, Mr. Sli-
dell, Mr. Macfarland, and Mr. Eustis, and has requested me to appoint
a time and place for receiving those gentlemen.
	I have agreed with the Secretary of State of the United States that
the four gentlemen shall be replaced under the protection of the British
flag in the harbor of Provincetown, Cape Cod, as soon as the neces-
sary arrangements can be made.
	I consider it to be of very great importance that every facility should
be afforded by her Majestys officers for effecting this without delay.
I therefore deem it to be my duty to request you to proceed as soon as
possible, in her Majestys ship under your command, to Provincetown
harbor, and there take the four gentlemen on board. They will be
brought from Fort Warren, Boston harbor, to Provincetown, in an
American steam vessel. Should they not be already there when you
arrive, it will be proper that you wait for them.
	As soon as you have them on board, it will be desirable that you
proceed with them direct to Halifax; this will, no doubt, be in con-
formity with their own wishes. You are further at liberty to assure
them that they will find every disposition on our part to repair, as far
as is now possible, any inconvenience or disadvantage which they have
sustained in consequence of their removal from the protection of the
British flag. We shall be willing to place them as nearly as possible
in the position which they occupied when that removal took place; but
we can not do more than this. We shall be desirous to facilitate their
123A1

Page 194

194	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

passing from Halifax to any neutral port; but we can not undertake to
convey them to part of the coast of the States which have seceded from
the Republic. The whole of the coasts of those States is uide~ block
ade, and Mr. Mason and Mr. Slidell and their companions were excluded
from it by the blockade when they were under the British flag on board
the Trent.
	It is hardly necessary that I should remind yon that these gentle-
men have no official character. It will be right for you to receive
them with all courtesy and respect as private gentlemen of distinction;
but it would be very improper to pay to them any of those honors
which are paid to official persons.
	It is desirable that the transfer of them from the American steam
vessel to her Majestys ship under your command should be effected
unostentatiously; and that when you have them on board, you should
go on to Halifax without the smallest delay.
	I request you to inform me by telegraph, as soon as possible after
you receive this dispatch, of the hour at which you intend to leave
New York, and of the hour at which you expect to arrive at Province-
town.
I am, etc.,
LYoNs.
	Commander HEWETT.


Lord Lyons to Earl Russell.

[Extract.]

WASHINGTON, December 31, 1861.
(Received January 15, 1862.)
	I was myself perfectly willing to dispatch her Majestys ship Rinaldo
to Boston harbor to receive Mr. Mason aud Mr. Shdell and their
companions from Fort Warren.
	I told Mr. Seward that I desired to consult his wishes as far as possi-
ble; that I was as unwilling as he could be that the transfer of the four
gentlemen should cause any popular excitement, or be made the occasion
for anything like display of exultation on the part of Great Britain.
The only points on which I desired to insist were, that the transfer
should be made by daylight, and that the gentlemen should either be
received on board a British ship of war in the United States or be
conveyed to a British port iii an American ship.
	Provincetown was suggested as the best place by the Assistant See--
retary of the Navy. It is, I believe, a small, quiet town. It is situated
near Cape Cod, and the harbor is a very good one. It is about 4() miles
from Boston. It is not on the direct route from Boston to Halifax, but
it is nearer to Halifax than Boston is.
	Time did not admit of the Rinaldos reaching it before to-morrow at
noon.
LYONS.
	Earl RUSSELL.


Lord Lyons to Earl Russell.

WASHINGTON, January 3 [1862].
(Received January 16.)
	MY LORD: The telegraphic dispatches in the newspapers this morn-
ing announce that Mr. Mason, Mr. Slidell, and their two companion

Page 195

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	195

sailed from Provincetown on board H. M. ship Rinaldo at 5 oclock the
day before yesterday. I have no other intelligence of their departure,
but I do not doubt that the newspaper accounts are correct.
	No excitement appears to have been apparent either at Province-
town or at Boston.
I have, etc.,
LYONS.
Earl RUSSELL.


Lord Lyon8 to Earl RUS8ell.

WASHINGTON, January 6, 1862.
(IReceived January 20.)
	M~ LORD: I have the honor to enclose the copy of a dispatch which
I received the day before yesterday from Commander Hewett, inform-
ing me that he received Mr. Mason and Mr. Slidell on board H. M. ship
Rinaldo, at Provincetown, on the 1st instant, and intended to put to sea
at once and make the best of his way to Halifax.
	I have also the honor to transmit to you a copy of a note which I
have received to-day from Mr. Frederick Seward, who is acting as Sec-
retary of State in the absence of his father, it announces to me offi-
daily the delivery of the four gentlemen to the commander of the
Ilinaldo. I add a copy of a note which I have written to Mr. Seward in
reply.
	11 have learned from the newspapers that the Rinaldo actually sailed
from Provincetown on the 1st instant. Intelligence of her arrival at
Halifax has not, however, yet reached Washington.
I have, etc.,
LYONS.
Eari RUSSELL.
[Enclosure 1.]

Commander Hewett to Lord Lyon8.

RINALDO, PROVINCETOWN HARBOR, January 1, 1862.
	M~ LORD: I have the honor to inform your lordship that I left New
York on the 30th nltinio and arrived at Provincetown early this
morning, and waited till evening, when ~Iessrs. Mason and Slidell and
companiolis came on board from an American tugboat from Boston.
According to your lordships instructions I received them without form
or ceremony.
	Although the barometer is falling considerably, II intend putting to
sea at once and making the best of my way to Halifax.
1 have, etc.,
	Lord LYONS.	HEWETT.

	P. S.The gentlemen remarked that their only wish was to proceed
to Europe.
	W.H.
[Enclosure 2.]

Mr. F. W. Seward to Lord Lyon8.

WASHINGTON; January 6, 1861 [1862].
	M~ LORD: I have the honor to inform you that at 4 p. m. on
Wednesday last, the 1st instant,Messrs. Mason, Slidell. E ustis, an

Page 196

196	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Macfarland, citizens of the United States, who were taken from the
British mail steamer Trent, by order of Captaiti Wilkes, of tbe U. S.
war steamer San Jacinto, were delivered to the custody of the com-
mander of the British war steamer Rinaldo, at Provincetown, in the
State of Massachusetts.
I avail, etc.,
F.	W. SEWARD.
Lord LYONS.
[Enclosure 3.]

Lord Lyons to Mr. F. Seward.

WAsHINGTON, January 6, 1861 11862].
	SIR:	I hasten to acknowledge the receipt of the note, dated to-day,
in which you have done me the honor to announce to me that Messrs.
Mason, Slidell, Eustis, and Macfarland were delivered to the com-
mander of her Majestys ship Rinaldo, at Provincetown, in the State
of Massachusetts, on the I st instant.
	I have, on my part, the honor to inform you that the commander of
her Majestys ship, the Rinaldo, who was deputed by me to receive the
four gentlemen, has reported to me that they were duly delivered to
him on board that ship, at the time and place above mentioned.
		I have, etc.,	LYONS.
	F.	W. SEWARD, Esq.



Earl Russell to Lord Lyons.

FOREIGN OFFICE ~LONDON], January 23, 1862.
	M~ LORD: I mentioned in my dispatch of the 10th instant that her
Majestys Government differed from Mr. Seward in some of the conclu-
sions at which he had arrived; and that I should state to you on a
future occasion wherein these differences consisted. I now proceed to
do so.
	It is necessary to observe that I propose to discuss the questions
involved in this correspondence solely on the principles of international
law. Mr. Seward himself, speaking of the capture of the four gentle-
men taken from on board the Trent, says: The question before us is
whether this proceeding was authorized by and conducted according
to the law of nations. This is, in fact, the nature of the question which
has been, but happily is no longer at issue. It concerned the respective
rights of belligerents and neutrals. We mnust therefore discard entirely
from our minds the allegation that the captured persons weve rebels,
and we must consider them only as enemies of the United States, at war
with its Government, for that is the ground on which Mr. Seward ulti-
mately places the discussion. It is the only ground upon which foreign
governments can treat it.
	The first inquiry that arises therefore is, as Mr. Seward states it,
Were the persons named and their supposed dispatches contraband
of war~
	Upon this question her Majestys Government differ entirely from
Mr. Seward.
	The general right amid duty of a neutral power to maintain its own
communications and friendly relations with both belligerents can not b

Page 197

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
197
disputed. A neutral nation, says Vattel,# continues, with the two
parties at war, in the several relations nature has placed between
nations. It is ready to perform toward both of them all the duties of
humanity reciprocally due from nation to nation. In the performance
of these duties, on both sides, the neutral nation has itself a most
direct and material interest; especially when it has numerous citizens
resident in the territories of both belligerents; and when its citizens,
resident both there and at home, h ave property of great value in the
territories of the belligerents, which may be exposed to danger from
acts of confiscation and violence if the protection of their own govern-
ment should be withheld. This is the case with respect to British sub-
jects during the present civil war in North America.
	Acting upon these principles, Sir William Scott, in the case of the
Caroline,t during the war between Great Britain and France decided
that the carrying of dispatches from the French ambassador resident
in the United States to the Government of France by a United States
merchant ship was no violation of the neutrality of the United States
in the war between Great Britain and France and that such dispatches
could not be treated as contraband of war.
	lie said:
	The neutral country has a right to preserve its relations with the enemy, and
you are not at liberty to conclude that any communication between them can par-
take, in any degree, of the nature of hostility against yon. The enemy may have
his hostile projects to be attempted with the neutral state, but your reliance is on
the integrity of that neutral state, that it will not favor nor participate in such
designs, but, as far as its own councils and actions are concerned, will oppose them.
And if there should be private reasons to suppose that this confidence in the good
faith of the neutral state has a doubtful foundation, that is matter for the caution
of the Government, to be counteracted by just measures of preventive policy; but
it is no ground on which this court can pronounce that the neutral carrier has
violated his duty by bearing dispatches, which, as far as he can know, may be pre
sumed to be of an innocent nature, and in the maintenance of a specific connection

	And he continues, shortly afterwards:
	It is to be considered also, with regard to this question, what may be due to the
convenience of the neutral state, for its interests may require that the intercourse of
correspondence with the enemys country shonld not be altogether interdicted. It
might be thought to amount almost to a declaration that an ambassador from the
enemy shall not reside in the neutral state, if he is declared to be debarred from
the only means of commnnicating with his own. For to what useful purpose can
he reside there without the opportunities of such a communication ~ It is too much
to say that all the business of the two states shall be transacted by the minister of
the neutral state resident in the enemys country. The practice of nations has
allowed to neutral states the privilege of receiving ministers from the belligerent
states, and the use and convenience of an immediate negotiation with them.

	That these principles must necessarily extend to every kind of (lip-
lomatic communication between government amid government, whether
by sending or receiving ambassadors or commissioners personally, or
by sending or receiving dispatches from or to such ambassadors or
commissioners, or from or to the respective governnments, is too plain
to need argument; and it seems no less clear that such communications
must be as legitimate and innocent in their first commencement as
afterwards, and that the rule can imot be restricted to the case imi which
diplomatic relations are already formally established by the residence
of an accredited minister of the belligerent power in the neutral coun-
try. It is the neutrality of the one party to the communications, and
not either the mode of the communications or the time when it first
Vattel, Book III, cap. 7, sec. 118.
tThe Caroline (Chr. Rob., 461); cited and approved by Wheaton ( Elements,
Part iv, cap. 3, sec. 22)

Page 198

198	OPERATIONS OF TilE CRUISERSUNION.

takes place, which furnishes the test of the true application of the
principle. The only distinction arising out of the peculiar circum-
stances of a civil war and of the nonrecognition of the independence
of the de facto government of one of the belligerents, either by the
other belijoerent or by the neutral power, is this: That, for the purpose
ot avoiding the difficulties which might arise floin a formal and positive
solution of these questions, diplomatic agents are frequently substi-
tuted who are clothed with the powers and enjoy the immunities of
ministers, though they are not invested with the representative char-
acter nor entitled to diplomatic honors.~~* Upon this Iboting Messrs.
Mason and Slidell, who are expressly stated by Mr. Seward to have been
sent as pretended ministers plenipotentiary from the Southern States
to the courts of St~James and of Paris, must have been sent, and
would have been, if at all, received; and the reception of these gentle-
men upon this footing could not have been justly regarded, according
to the law of nations, as a hostile or unfriendly act toward the United
States. Nor, indeed, is it clear that these gentlemen would have been
clothed with any powers, or have enjoyed any immunities, beyond those
accorded to diplomatic agents not officially recognized.
	it appears to her Ma~jestys Government to be a necessary and cer-
tam deduction from these principles that the conveyance of public
agents of this character from Havana to St. Thomas on their way to
Great Britain and France, and of their ci-edentials or dispatches (if
any) on board the Trent, was miot and could not be a violation of the
duties of neutrality on the part of that vessel; and, both for that reason
and also because the destination of these persons and their dispatches
was bona fide neutral, it is in the judgment of her Majestys Govern-
ment clear and certain that they were not contraband.
	The doctrine of contraband has its whole foundation and origin in
the principle which is nowhere more accurately explained than iii the
following passage of Bynkershoek. After stating in general ternis the
duty of impartial neutrality, he adds:
	Et sane id, quod modo dicebam, non tantum ratio docet, med et Usus, infer omnes fere.
genies receptus. Quarneis enim libera sint cum arnicorum nostroruin Iiostibus commercia,
usu tamenpiacuit, ne alterutrum his rebus juvemus, quibus helium contra arnicos nostros
instruatur etfoveatur. Non licet igitur alteruiri adeeliere ea, qui bus in hello gerendo opus
hahet; ut sunt tormenta, arma, et quorum prwc~puus in hello U5U8~ milites. ~ * * *
Optiruojure interdictum est, ne quid eorum hostibus subministrem?is; quia ins rebus nos
tpsiquodammodo videremur amicis nostris belle ~n facere.

	The principle of contraband of war is here clearly explained,, amid it
is impossible that mnen, or dispatches, which do not come within that
principle, can in this sense be contraband. The penalty of knowingly
carrying contraband of war is, as Mr. Seward states, nothing less than
the confiscation of the ship; but it is impossible that this penalty can
be incurred when the neutral has done no more than employ means
usnal among nations for maintaining his own proper relations with one
of the belligerents. It is of the very essence of the definition of contra-
band that the articles should have a hostile, and not a neutral desti-
nation. Goods, says Lord Stowell4 going to a neutral port can not
come under the descriptiomi of contraband, all goods going there being
equally lawful. The rule respecting contraband, he adds, as I have
always understood it,is that articles must be taken in delicto,in the
actual prosecution of the voyage to an enemys port. On what just
principle can it be contended that a hostile destination is less neces
* Wheatons Elements, part 3, chap. 1, sec. 5.
t Bynkershoek: Qnnst. Jur. Pubi., lib. 1, cap. 9.
IThe Inn; 3 Clir. Rob., 167

Page 199

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	199

sary, or a neutral destination more noxious, for constituting a contra-
band character in the case of public agents or dispatches, than in the
case of arms and ammunition ~
	Mr. Seward seeks to snpport his conclusion on this point by a refer-
ence to the well-known dictum of Sir William Scott in the case of the
Caroline, that you may stop the ambassador of your enemy on his
passage, * and to another dictum of the same judge, in the case of the
Orozenibo, that civil functionaries, if sent for a purpose intimately con-
nected with the hostile operations, I may fall under the same rule with
persons whose employment is directly military. These quotations are,
as it seems to her Majestys Government, irrelevant. The words of
Sir W. Scott are in both applied by Mr. Seward in a sense different
from that in which they were used. Sir William Scott does not say
that an ambassador sent from a belligerent to a neutral state may be
stopped as contraband while on his passage on board a neutral vessel
belonging to that or any other neutral state; nor that, ifhebenot
contraband, the other belligerent would have any right to stop him on
such a voyage. The sole object which Sir William Scott had in view
was to explain the exteiit and limits of the doctrine of the inviolabil-
ity of ambassadors, in virtue of that character; for he says:
	The limits that are assigned to the operations of war against them, by Yattel and
other writers upon these subjects, are that you may exercise your right of war against
them whenever the character of hostility exists. You may stop the ambassador of
your enemy ou his passage; bnt when he has arrived, and taken npon him the
functions of his office, and has been admitted in his representative character, he
becomes a sort of middleman, entitled to peculiar privileges, as set apart for the
protection of the relations of amity and peace, in maintaining which all nations are
in some degree ]nterested.

	There is certainly nothing in this passage from which an inference
can be drawn so totally opposed to the general tenor of the whole
judgment, as that an ambassador proceeding to the country to which
he is sent, and on board a neutral vessel belonging to that country,
can be stopped on the ground that the conveyance of such an ambas-
sador is a breach of neutrality, which it must be if he be contraband of
war. Sir William Scott is here expressing not his own opinion merely,
but the doctrine which he considers to have been laid down by writers
of authority upon the subject. No writer of authority has ever sug-
gested that an ambassador procee(liIlg to a neutral state on board one
of its merchant ships is contraband of war. The only writer named by
Sir William Scott is Vattel4 whose words are these:
	On pert encore attaqner et arr~ter ses gens [i. e., gens de 7,ennemi], ))artout oi~ On a la
libertd dexercer des actes dhostititd. Non seulement doac on pert justement refuser lepas-
sage aux ministres quun ennemi enroy6 4 dautres souverains; on les arrfte miiae sils
entreprennent de passer secri~tenient et sans permission dans les ijeux dont on est maitre.

	And he adds, as an example, the seizure of a French ambassador
when passing through the dominions of Hanover during war between
England and France, by the King of England, who was also sovereign
of Hanover.
	The rule, therefore, to be collected from these authorities is that you
may stop an enemys ambassador in any place of which you are your-
self the master, or in any place where you have a right to exercise acts
of hostility. Your own territory, or ships of your own country, are
places of which you are yourself the master. The enemys territory, or
the enemys ships, are the places in which you have a right to exercise

tY~tel, lii). iv, chap. 7, sec. 85,
The Caroline; 6 Chr. Rob., 468.
IThQ Orqzen~bo; 6 Chr, Rob., 434

Page 200

200	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

acts of hostility. Neutral vessels, guilty of no violation of the laws of
neutrality, are places where you have no right to exercise acts of hos~
tility.
	It would be an inversion of the doctrine that ambassadors have
peculiar privileges to argue that they are less protected than other
men. The right conclusion is that an ambassador sent to a neutral
power is inviolable on the high seas, as well as in neutral waters, while
under the protection of the neutral flag.
	The other dictum of Sir William Scott, in the case of the Orozembo,
is even less pertinent to the present question. That related to the case
of a neutral ship which, upon the effect of the evidence given on the
trial, was held by the court to have been engaged as an enemys trans-
port to convey the enemys military officers and some of his civil offi -
cers, whose duties were intimately connected with military operations,
from the enemys country to one of the enemys colonies, which was
about to be the theater of those operations, the whole being done nuder
color of a simulated neutral destination. But as long as a neutral
government, within whose territory no military operations are carried
on, adheres to its profession of neutrality the duties of civil officers
on a mission to that government and within its territory can not possi-
bly be connected with any military operations~~ in the sense in
which these words were nsed by Sir William Scott, as, indeed, is ren-
dered quite clear by the passages already cited from his own judgment
in the case of the Caroline.
	In connection with this part of the subject it is necessary to notice
a remarkable passage in Mr. Sewards note, in which he says:
	I assume, in the present case, what, as I read British authorities, is regarded by
Great Britain herself as true maritime lawthat the circumstance that the Trent
was proceeding from a neutral port to another neutral port does not modify the right
of the belligerent capture.

	If, indeed, the immediate and ostensible voyage of the Trent had
been to a neutral port, but her ultimate and real destination to some
port of the enemy, her Majestys Government might have been better
able to understand the reference to British authorities contained in this
passage. It is undoubtedly the law, as laid down by British authori-
ties, that if the real destination of the vessel be hostile (that is, to the
enemy or the enemys country) it can not be covered and rendered
innocent by a fictitious destination to a neutral port. But if the real
terminus of the voyage be bona fide, in a neutral territory, mio English,
nor, indeed, as her Majestys Government believe, any American
authority can be found which has ever given countenance to the doc-
trine that either men or dispatches can be subject, during such a voy-
age and on board such a neutral vessel, to belligerent capture as con-
traband of war. Her Majestys Government regard such a doctrine as
wholly irreconcilable with the true principles of maritime law, and
certainly with those principles as they have been understood in the
courts of this country.
	It is to be further observed that packets engaged in the postal serv-
ice, and keeping up the regular and periodical communications between
the different countries of Europe and America and other parts of the
world, though, in the absence of treaty stipulations, they may not be
exempted from visit and search in time of war, nor from the penalties
of any violation of neutrality, if proved to have been knowingly com-
mitted, are still, when sailing in the ordinary and innocent course of
their legitimate employment, which consists in the conveyance of mails
and passengers, entitled to peculiar favor and protection from all go

Page 201

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	201

ernments in whose service they are engaged. To detain, disturb ,or
interfere with them, without the very gravest cause, would be an act
of a most noxious aud injurious character, not only to a vast number
and variety of individual and private interests, but to the public inter-
ests of neutral and friendly governments.
	It has been necessary to dwell upon these points iu some detail,
because they involve principles of the highest importance, and because,
if Mr. Sewards argument were acted upon as sound, the most injurious
consequences might follow.
	For instance, in the present war, according to Mr. Sewards doctrine,
any packet ship carrying a Confederate agent from Dover to Calais, or
from Calais to Dover, might be captured and carried to New York. Ju
case of a war between Austria aiid Italy the conveyance of an Italian
minister or agent might cause the capture of a neutral packet plying
between Malta and Marseilles, or between Malta and Gibraltar, the
condemnation of the ship at Trieste, and the confinement of the minister
or agent in an Austrian prison. So in the late war between Great
Britain and France on the one hand, and Russia on the other, a Russian
minister going from Hamburg to Washington, in an American ship,
might have been brought to Portsmouth, the ship might have been con-
dem tied, and the minister sent to the Tower of London. So, also, a
Confederate vessel of war might capture a Cunard steamer on its way
from Halifax to Liverpool on the ground of its carrying dispatches
from Mr. Seward to Mr. Adams.
	In view, therefore, of the erroneous principles asserted by Mr. Sew-
ard and the consequences they involve, her Majestys Government
think it necessary to declare that they would not acquiesce in the cap-
ture of any British merchant ship in circumstances similar to those of
the Trent, and the fact of its being brought before a prize court, though
it would alter the character, wonidnot diminish the gravity of the offense
against the law of nations which would thereby be committed.
	Having disposed of the question whether the persons named and
their supposed dispatches were contrabrand of war, I am relieved from
the necessity of discussitig the other questions raised by Mr. Seward,
namely, whether Captain Wilkes had lawfully a right to stop and
search the Trent for these persons and their supposed dispatches;
whether that right, assuming that he possessed it, was exercised by
him in a lawful and proper manner, and whether he had a right to cap-
ture the persons found on board.
	The fifth question put by Mr. Seward, namely, whether Captain
Wilkes exercised the alleged right of capture in the manner allowed
and recoguizcd by the law of nations, is resolved by Mr. Seward him.
self in the negative.
	I can not conclude however, without noticing one very singular pas-
sage in Mr. Sewards dispatch.
	Mr. Seward asserts that if the safety of this Union required the
detention of the captured persons it would be the right and duty of
this Government to detain them. He proceeds to say that the waning
proportions of the insurrection and the comparative unimportance of
the captured persons themselves forbid him from resorting to that
defense. Mr. Seward does not here assert any right founded on inter.
national law, however inconvenient or irritating to neutral nations; he
entirely loses sight of the vast difference which exists between the
exercise of an extreme right and the commission of an unquestional
ble wrong. His frankness compels me to be equally open, and to
inform him that Great Britain could not have submitted to the perp

Page 202

202	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

tration of that wrong, however flourishing might have been the insur-
rection in the South and however important the persons captured
might have been.
	Happily all danger of hostile collision on this subject has been
avoided. It is the earnest hope of her Majestys Government that
similar dangers, if they should arise, may be averted by peaceful nego-
tiations conducted in the spirit which befits the organs of the two
great nations.
	I request you to read this dispatch to Mr. Seward and give him a
copy of it.
I am, etc.,
RUSSELL.
Lord LYONS.


[Telegram.]


(Received November 8, 1861, from Halifax, Nova Scotia.)
	SECRETARY [o~j STATE: Am requested by consul at Bermuda to
state that English merchant steamer Fingal arrived at Bermuda on 3d,
bound Jamaica, via Nassau, New Providence. Leaves on 5th. lIe is
convinced she is laden with munitions of war and intends to run block-
ade. Steamer Nashville escaped from Charleston; was coaling at Ber-
muda on 3d to leave for Liverpool on 5th. Slidell and Mason not on
board; supposed they left St. Thomas for Southampton on 30th ultimo
in English steamer.
M.	M. JACKSON,
Consul.
	Hon. WM. II. SEWARD.



Report of Commander Marehand, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. James
Adger, forwarding information of steamer Gladiator, from London,
loaded with munitions of war.

U.	S. S. JAMES ADGER,
Southampton, England, November 9, 1861.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you that I have hopes of getting to
sea to-night or to-morroxv morning on the way with this ship to the
Chesapeake Bay, as directed by Flag-Officer Du Pont.
	Information has been given me that an iron propeller named the
Gladiator, of London, of 600 tons burdeii, left the Thames two days ago
laden with 600 cases of Enfleld and Belgian rifles, a nun ber of cannon,
a large quantity of field blankets, shells, powder, and other munitions
of war, bound either to Bermuda or Nassau, the latter the most prob-
able, with the intention of transshipment to the Southern States. The
Gladiator is an English vessel with regular papers and destined to an
English port. I will keep a lookout for her on our return to the United
States.
	The paymaster has made arrangements with Messrs. Baring, Bros. &#38; 
Co. for funds to defray our expenses here.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MARCHAND,
(Jommander,
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
S~eretary of the Navy

Page 203

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	203

Letter from R. W. Welch, esq., to F. S. Lathrop, esq., relative to loading
of vessels at Havana for Southern ports, and urging the need of a war
vessel there.
KEY WEST, November 9, 1861.
	DEAR SIR: The underwriters schooner, Henry W. Johnson, Hoyt, has
this moment ~rrived here froni Havana, with dispatches from IR. W.
Shut~ldt, U. S. consul-general at havana, to the commander of the
forces here, giving the intelligence that several rebel vessels are load-
ing for Southern ports, and that 40,000 stand arms would leave Havana
yesterday and to-day.
	Why this place is left without a single steam vessel of war is unac-
countable, as it certainly is the most important point upon the coast of
the United States, and hardly a day passes that one could not be use-
ful; a single fast steamer might be dispatched, and, no doubt, would
intercept one or more of the rebel vessels constantly arriving at and
departing from Havana every day.
	The U. ~3. S. Huntsville is now in port being repaired, and of course
is useless. Captain Hoyt, I understand, will leave immediately for
Nassau and hopes to meet the pirate vessels said to be cruising about
the Bahama Banks.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
It. W. WELCH.
F.	S. LATHUOP, Esq.,
Chairman of the Gommittee for Managing Affairs of the
Key West and Nassau Agencies, New York.


Letter from R. W. Welch, esy., Key West, to F. S. Lathrojp, esq., relative

to the continual loading of vessels at Havana for Southern ports.

KEY WEST, November 11, 1861.
	DEAR SIR: The U. S. S. Rhode Island sails for iNew York this p. in.,
and has on board many passengers and provisions.
	AlmQst every day we have arrivals from Havana, who report rebel
vessels fitting out from that port with arms for the Southern army, and
no United States ship of war upon the station to oppose them.
	I hope, ere long, we shall have Captain Craven upon this station, with
his new ship and a roving commission; only such a man should be sent
here.
	Jam happy to say everything here is quiet. Brigadier-General French
goes passeiiger on the Rhode Island. He will call upon you.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
R.	W. WELCH.
F.	S. LATHROP, Esq.
Chairman of the Committee for Managing Affairs of the
Key West and Nassau Agencies, New York.


Report of Commander Palmer, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Iroquois,
of cruise in search of C. S. S. Sumter, with enclosed correspondence with
the governor of Cura9ao.
U.	S. S. IROQUOIS,
St. Thomas, November 11, 1861.
	SIR: My last letter to the Department was from Paramaribo (Sun-
nam), 25th of October

Page 204

204	OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSUNION.

	Finding we obtained coal so slowly, I left on the 27th for Trinidad,
having received coal enongh to take me thither. Here, where I had
great hopes of finding the Sumter, I entered the port at midnight with
the full intention of running into her and carrying her by boarding,
and being off with her before daylight, ere the authorities could be
aware of the transaction, even if I had to go under sail alone.
	But she did not prove to be here, neither had they heard of her siuce
my departure. It was said, however, that the lights of a strange
steamer were seen passing through the gulf some three nights previous.
	I now filled up my coal, proceeded down the main land of Venezuela
to the Island of Margarita, entered two of its harbors, where I thought
possibly the Sumter might have gone in for supplies. I was told there
that there was- a strange man-of-war steamer at Cumana, also that the
Sumter was last week cruising off La Gnayra, and that the American
merchants there were very anxious about vessels they were expecting.
I immediately proceeded to La Guayra, where I soon learned the story
was false, and that the Sumter had not been off there since her first
appearan~e two months ago. The strange steam man-of-war from
Cumana also arrived that day, proving it to be a Frenchman. I also
fell in with the Macedonian the same day, who had come along the
coast from Aspinwall, but as she had not stopped at Puerto Cabello, I
determined to go there. Upon reaching that port I found nothing had
been heard of the Sumter in that quarter for the last two months. I
began now to doubt the information given me by the French brig, and
had he not first complained to his own man-of war packet that a Southern
American corsair steamer had made him show his colors, and after.
ward earnestly assured my officer that it was the Sumter, which he
knew well, which passed him going to the westward off the coast of
Guiana, I should conclude that she was still off the coast of Brazil. I
stayed a day at Puerto Cabello, where the Government seemed most
friendly to the United States and assured me the Sunder should not be
allowed to come into their port.
	I then ran over to Cura~ao. When boarded by the harbor master
as I was about entering port, I was requested to remain outside until
I received a communication from the governor, and shortly after the
flag captain of the Dutch commodore (they having at this time quite a
large squadron in port, with which they are about to enforce some
claims upon Venezuela) caine on board bringing me a letter from the
governor, a copy of which I enclose.
	This Dutch notion of neutrality exceeds anything, savoring some-
what of impertinence and certainly disrespectful to our flag.
	I enclose a copy of my reply. It is perhaps rather too civil, but the
officer told me that they all regretted the views of the home Govern-
mnent. and thought it was only intended to keep the Southern privateers
out of their harbor. I sent in a boat for our consul, a Mr. lvlorse, of
iowa, only lately arrived, who informed me that there were two ves-
sels laden with coal belonging to our Government now in the port.
	I advised him to send them elsewhere as no American man-of-war
would enter the port of Cura~ao under their present regulations. He
said that one was already unloaded and that the vessels were chartered
to go elsewhere, and he did not see how he could remove the coal. I
then left for St. Thomas, where I arrived this morning.
	I here again learn that the Sumter was spoken four days ago off
Guadeloupe, and the captain of the vessel whom she boarded assures
me that her appearance agrees with a photograph which I have of the
Sumter. Consequently, as soon as 1 have coaled and done some littl

Page 205

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	205

work upon the boilers and engines, which were very much fouled by the
mud of the Surinam River, I shall be off again in search.
	I am now embarrassed to know what the Departments wishes are on
the subject of this ship, whether to remain in the West Indies and pro-
tect our interests here, which all the consuls and merchants desire me
to do, or to returi~ at once to Hampton Roads. From the fact of the Gov-
ernments having sent out coal to this station and that the Powhatan
and Keystone ASvtate have returned home, and again this later news con-
cerning the Sumter, I consider it my duty to remain until I hear from
the Department.
	A reply to this letter I can obtain in three weeks, addressed to the
care of the consul at this port via Havana.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAs. S. PALMER,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

	P. S.I find the best way of addressing letters to St. Thomas is
through Maitland &#38; Phelps, New York, and not through Havana.

[Enclosures.]

CURA~AO, November 8, 1861.
	SIR: The Government of the Netherlands, wishing to maintain a
strict neutrality during the existing disturbances in the United States
of America, and, in conformity therewith, having adopted some general
rules to be observed in reference to vessels of war of the one or other
belligerent party entering one of its seaports, I consider it my duty to
acquaint you with the instructions received on the subject for your
guidance. They are as follows, viz:
	I. Vessels of war of the belligerent parties will be admitted in this
port for forty-eight hours only, except in case of distress or other legal
reasons making a longer stay absolutely necessary.
	2. To the said vessels of war it will only be permitted to take in the
necessary provisions, but no ammunition; while, for as much as regards
steamers being in want of fuel, they may not supply themselves with
more than the quantity requisite to steam twenty-four hours beyond the
anchoring place.
	Giving myself the honor to bring those regulations, based on the
principle of perfect neutrality, under your notice, I beg leave at the
same time to express my expectation that you will readily comply with
the same in entering this harbor with the vessel of war under your com-
mand.
I have the honor to remain, respectfully,
The governor of Cura~ao amid dependencies,
J.	IJ. CROL.
His honor Captain JAs. S. PALMER,
The Commander of the U. S. S. Iroquois.


U.	S. S. IROQUOIS,
Qff~ Cura~ao, November 8, 1861.
	Captain Palmer has the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the let-
ter of the governor of Cura~ao of this days date, and in reply informs
his excellency that, though it was his intention to have entered the por

Page 206

206	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

of (Jura9ao for a few hours, he now declines accepting the hospitality
of a government which places the flag of the Uiiited States on a par
with that of a rebellious party who are wickedly opposing it.
His	Excellency the GOVERNOR OF CURA~AO AND ITS DEPENDEN-
CIES.



Report of Commander Bidgely, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Santiago
de Cuba, of departure of that vessel to protect commerce, etc.

U.	S. S. SANTIAGO DE CUBA,
Off Sandy Hook, November 11, 1861.
	SIR: I have the pleasure to inform the Department that the Santiago
de Cuba is at sea.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
DANL. B. ItIDGELY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. G. WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Capture of the Confederate privateer Beauregard, November 12, 1861.

Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Rogers, U. S. I~avy, commanding U. S. bark W. G.
Anderson, of the capture of the C. S. privateer Beauregard.

U.	S. BARK W. G. ANDERSON,
Bahama Channel, November 13, 1861.
	SIR: I last had the honor of addressing you nuder date of Novem-
ber 4, per schooner J. J. Spencer, enclosing abstract log of the U. S.
bark W. G. Anderson to that date, and, to my regret, had nothing to
report to the Department of any moment.
	I now have the gratification to inform you that we have been fortu-
nate enough to capture the rebel privateer schooner Beauregard (101
tons), of and from Charleston, seven days out, and manned by a cap-
tain, 2 lieutenants, purser, and 23 seamnen27 all toldand carrying a
rifled pivot gun, throwing a 24-pound projectile. This occurred under
the following circumstances:
	Since November 4 we have cruised along to the northward of the
West India Islands and passages. steering westerly, without seeing but
one sail. After standing to within 70 miles of the Hole in the Wall,
we turned our heads to the eastward again and on November 12, in
latitude 26~ 40 N., longitude 750 42 W., at daylight, made a schooner
running before the wind towards us. On approaching within 4 miles,
lie suddenly hauled by the wind, and, as we noticed many men on her
decks, we immediately made sail iu chase, and in two hours brought
her to under our lee, and ordered the captain on board with his papers.
He brought a letter of marque from Jefferson Davis wh
dered with his vessel.	,	ich he surreti
	We put a prize master and crew on board and transferred the prison-
ers to our ship, placing them in double irons. On boarding her the
crew was found in a drunken state, committing all the destruction they
could, throwing overboard the arms and ammunition, spiking the gun,
and cutting the sails and rigging to pieces. She was otherwise in ba

Page 207

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	207

order and poorly found, and having but a short supply of water, of
which we havenone to spare, was in no condition to come to Boston.
	Having 27 prisoners, and no room for them on board the W. G.
Anderson, I decided, as we were within three days sail of Key West,
to take them and the vessel into that port and deliver them to the
proper authorities, and thence return to my cruising ground. 1 also
am desirous of procuring, if possible, some ballast, of which the bark is
very much in need.
Trusting that my proceedings will meet with your approbation,
I have the honor to be, respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. C. ROGERS,
Acting [Volunteer] Lieutenant,
Commanding U. S. Bark W. 0. Anderson.
lion. GiDEoN WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy of the United States.


Abstract of log of U. S. bark W. G. Anderson, Lieutenant W. C. Rogers commanding.

	November 12, 1SG1.At daylight saw a sail, tacked ship for her, and
soon made her out to be a fore-and-aft schooiier bearing down for us.
When within 4 miles,she suddenly hauled her wind. Made sail in
chase. Saw many men on decks, and something that appeared like a
gun amidships. She also set the English flag at her mainmast head.
At 9:30 a. m. brought her to and ordered the captain on board with his
papers, which orders he obeyed. She proved to be the C. S. privateer
Beauregard (formerly the Priscilla C. Ferguson), of and from Charleston,
seven days, manned by a captain, 2 lieutenants, purser, and 23 men,
and armed with one 12-pounder rifle pivot gun. The captain coming
on board, delivered his papers and vessel. Aim officer was sent on
board the vessel to take possession. He found the crew drunk and
committing all the destruction to the vessel and her apparel they could,
the gun having been spiked, the sails and rigging badly cut, etc.
Transferred the officer and crew from the schooner to the ship, where
they were put in double irons.
	At noon, latitude 260 42 N., longitude 750 42 W.



Order from Secretary of the Navy to Lieutenant Temple, U. S. Navy,
commmandinq U. S. S. Flambeau, to proceed to Nassau, New Provi-
dence, to interdict trade from the Bahaina Islands to the Confederate
States.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 13, 1861.
	SIR: When the U. S. S. Plambean is ready for sea proceed with her
to Nassau, New Providence, and communicate with the American con-
sul there. It is believed that the large quantities of arms and other
articles contraband of war are shipped to Nassau with the avowed
object of being sent into the rebellious ports by the means of small
sailing vessels plying from New Providence and the other Bahama
Islands across to the southern coast of the United States. You will
thoroughly examine the islands forming the Bahama group and, respect-
ing the rights of neutrals, will use your utmost exertions in interdicting
communication. Communicate by letter with the Department as oppor-
tumty offers. Coal will be sent to Nassau

Page 208

208	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	Enclosed is a copy of the instructions given to Commander Ridgely,
of the U. S. S. Dc Soto [Santiago de Cuba].
	Transmit to the Department before sailing from New York a muster
roll of the crew and a separate list of the officers of the Plambeau.
I am, respectfully, etc.,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Lieutenant Wi~i. G. TEMPLE,	[Secretary of the Navy.]
Commanding U. S. Propeller Plambean, New York.



Report of Commander Palmer, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Iro-
quois, of cruise in search of C. S. S. Sumter, enclosing correspondence
with the governor of Martinique.

U.	S. S. IROQUOIS,
Off St. Pierre, Martinique, November 17, 1861.
	Sir: I addressed a letter to the Department on the 11th instant upon
my arrival at St. Thomas.
	On the day following, in the midst of coaling, a mail steamer arrived,
bringing information that the Sumter had put in on the 9th to Fort
Royal, Martinique, in want of coal. I had been often led astray by
false reports, but this seemed so positive that I instantly ceased coal-
ing, got my engines together, and was off at 2 in the midwatch for Mar-
tinique, arriving at St. Pierre in thirty-six hours.
	On turning into the harbor, I discovered a suspicious steamer, which
as we approached proved to be the Sumter, flying the secession hag,
moored to the wharf in the midst of this populous town, quietly coaling.
The town and shipping in the harbor were instantly all excitement.
I could not attack her in this position for humanitys sake, even were I
disposed to be regardless of the neutrality of the port. I did not
anchor; but cruised around the harbor within half gunshot of her dur-
ing the night. In the morning a French man-of-war arrived from Fort
Royal, the seat of government, only 12 miles distant. The Sumter had
been there for the last two days.
	The Government, it is true, had refused to give her any of its coal,
but had allowed her to come around to St. Pierre, where she readily
obtained it from some merchants (English, I believe). She evidently
had been received with courtesy at the seat of government, and this
farce of the nonrecognition of the Confederate flag is played out by
both France and England in the most flagrant manner.
	I now addressed a letter to the governor, assuming him to be ignor-
Qnt of the character of the Sumter, a copy of which I enclose. I also
enclose a translation of his reply. The Department will observe that
from the generous disposition of the Emperor and the hospitable inteii-
tions of the governor the Sumter has the same privileges as this vessel.
	The captain of the French war steamer also addressed me a letter,
saying he was directed by the governor to request me no longer to coin-
promise the neutrality of the French waters by establishing a blockade
within their jurisdiction, but to anchor, when every hospitality and
facility should be afforded me, or to take my position without the dis-
tance of a marine league from shore; at the same time that, while
under way, it was contrary to the police regulations of the port t~
communicate with the shore

Page 209

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	209

	I consequently decided upon anchoring, which I had no sooner done
than the French commander paid me a visit, offered me every civility
and attention, saying he did not doubt that all international law would
be respected by me, and, in the course of conversation, quoting from
Wheaton, reminded me that one belligerent could not depart until
twenty-four hours after the other. I instantly got under way with him
on board, fearing lest the Sumter should do so before me, as her steam
was up.
	I have now accepted the alternative, and established myself at the
mouth of the harbor, with out the marine league, with much anxiety,
lest during the darkness of the night, under the cover of the high land,
the Sumter should be able to get off without my being aware of it.
	I have no one on shore on whom I can rely; the consul is a Scotch-
man, seems an invalid, says he is only an acting American consul and
still a British subject, at least so an American master, who is here,
informs me. He has paid me a visit and seemed very much worried by
all the turmoil and excitement the arrival of the Sumter had given
him. Well disposed enough to the Government he may be, but he cer-
tainly is not a man for this occasion.
	The majority of the town is in favor of the Sumter, and with the
utmost vigilance which all on board exert, she may yet escape some
night for want of signals from the shore to give us notice of her depart-
ure. I am also in want of coal, and shall send over to St. Thomas
to-morrow for a supply, as well as provisions, stores, etc., for when I
left I did not bargain for this blockade.
	The Sumter seems in good condition; the consul informs me she has
120 men; she does not certainly appear in the disorganized state in
which late accounts have represented her. She has latterly captured but
two American vessels, one the brig Joseph Parke, of Boston, on the 25th
September, the other the schooner Daniel Trowbridge, of New Haven,
on the 27th October; has landed here 14 prisoners on their parole; 3 of
the Joseph Parkes men (all foreigners) joined the Sumter.
	I regret to give the Government so long and unsatisfactory a letter,
but must avail myself of the 3pportunity for St. Thomas which offers
to-morrow.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAS. S. PALMER,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

NOVEMBER 18.

	P. S.I feel more and more convinced that the Sumter will yet escape
me, in spite of all our vigilance and zeal, even admitting that I can
outsteam her, which is a question.
	To blockade such a bay as this, which is almost an open roadstead,
15 miles in width, the surrounding land very high and the water very
bold, obliged, as we are by the neutrality laws, to blockade at 3 miles
distance, it would require at least two more fast steamers, and a vessel
of war of any description in port to notify us by signal of her depar-
tnre, to give any reasonable hope of preventing her escape.
	Even now, moonlight nights though it be, shemay yet creep out under
shadow of the land and no one be able to perceive her, she being always
able to observe my position, open to seaward. Though I have made
arrangements to be informed by signal of her departure from shore, I
fear I can not depend upon the parties, so fearful are they of the
	123A	1

Page 210

210	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

authorities and of popular indignation. I have done all I can, and if
she escapes me we must submit to the distress and mortification.
	1 believe we have no vessel on this station except the Macedonian,
and there is no knowing when she may get up this way to learn our
situation. I wish the Sumter were anywhere else except in this port,
or under French protection. The authorities here, under plea of neu-
trality, are throwing every obstacle in my way in the way of coinmuni-
cating with the shore. They are so fall of punctilio, and withal so
polite, that it is provoking to have anything to do with them.


[Enclosures.]

U.	S. S. IROQUOIS,
Off St. Pierre, November 15, 1861.
	SIR: As circumstances prevent my paying my personal respects to
your Excellency or your representative at this place, I write to announce
my arrival on the afternoon of yesterday, as well as to inform you that
to my surprise I find a notorious steamer called the Sinnter quietly coal-
ing at the wharves and enjoying the hospitality of the port.
	As your Excellency can not be aware of the character of this vessel,
I denounce her to you as one that has been for some time engaged in
pirating upon the commerce of the United States, robbing, burning, or
otherwise destroying all American vessels that came within her reach.
May I not hope, therefore, that your Excellency, upon this representa-
tion, will not allow her to enjoy the privileges I complain of~ but direct
her to leave the protection of the French flag and the immunities of a
French port.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAS. S. PALMER,
Commanding U. S. S. Iroquois.

	His Excellency the GOVERNOR OF MARTINIQUE.





[Translation.]


GOUVERNEMENT DE LA MARTINIQUE,
CABINET flU GOUVERNEUR,
Fort de France, November 15, 1861.
	MONSIEUR LE COMMANDANT: I have the honor to reply to the letter
which you addressed me this morning. I am not ignorant, Monsieur
le Commandant, of the presence in the roads of St. Pierre of a vessel
belonging to the States of the South, who profess to have formed a
separate confederation.
	To accomplish the generous intentions of the Emperor, I wish to be
hospitable to the vessels of the two belligerent parties, but I will not,
neither can not, without violating the orders of his Majesty, divest my-
self of the absolute neutrality that I ought to observe. This is to say
to you, Monsieur le Commandant, that it is not my intention to refuse
an anchorage to a vessel belonging to the States of the South. I offer
to you, on the other hand, the same hospitality and the same facilities
to the vessel belonging to the Government of the ljnion, which you
have the honor to command.
	There exist, besides, international laws that every civilized natio

Page 211

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	211

scrupulously observes, and which I need scarcely recall to you, Mon-
sieur le Commandant, nor to the commander of the Sumter.
	Accept, Monsieur le Commandant, the assurance of my most distin-
guished consideration.
	LAmiral, Gouverneur de la Martinique,
DE MAUSSION DE CANDI~.
	Monsieur le COMMANDANT DE L IROquois.




Letter from Secretary of the Navy to Lieutenant Temple, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Flambeau, giving information regarding the
blockade runner Gladiator.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 18, 1861.
	SIR: I herewith inclose a copy of communications,* dated the 1st and
2d instant, addressed to the Department of State by the U. S. consul
at London, giving information concerning the screw steamer Gladiator,
which has been purchased by the rebel agents in England, and loaded
with arms, etc., with the design of attempting to run the blockade.
	The Gladiator may possibly touch at some of the points or pass iu
the track to which your attention has been directed, and the Depart-
ment therefore urges upon you the utmost vigilance to intercept her,
should such be the case, and capture her.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Lieutenant WM. G. TEMPLE,	[Secretary of the Navy.]
Commander U. S. Propeller Flambeau.



Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Roqers, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. bark Win. G. Anderson, of disposition of the prize vessel Beaure-
gard.
KEY WEST hARBOR, November 20, 1861.
	SIR: I had the honor of addressing the Navy Department on the
13th instant, per the schooner John N. Genin, under Government charter,
bound to New York, and fallen in with by me off Key West, iu which
dispatch I informed you of the capture of the Southern privateer
schooner Beauregard off Charleston, and now enclose a duplicate of
the above.
	We arrived at this port yesterday with the prize in company, which
was taken charge of by the U. S. marshal, to be disposed of according
to the laws, and will, of course, be condemned.
	The prisoners have been examined by the U. S. judge and were also
delivered to the cu~tody of the marshal to await the action of the
Government in this matter. All the papers belonging to the prize were
likewise taken charge of by the legal authorities, and after giving my
affidavit was informed by the judge that my authority over the prize
ended here.
	I now only wait for a little ballast, which I expect to obtain from the
naval storekeeper, who will probably furnish me coal (50 to 75 tons),

* Omitted

Page 212

212	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

and shall hope to sail from here in two days, an(l shall proceed with all
dispatch to our former cruising ground in the Atlantic.
I have the honor to be, respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. C. I~OGERS,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant~ Commanding
U.	S. Bark W. U. Anderson.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Sect etary of the Navy of the United States.


Order from Secretary of the Naey to Acting TTolnnteer Lieutenant Moore,
U.	S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Morning Light, to proceed to sea
under sealed orders.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, Nove~n~er 22, 1861.
	SIR: The moment the U. S. ship Morning Light, under your command,
is prepared for a cruise you will proceed with her to sea.
	Enclosed herewith are sealed instructions, which you will not open
until the Morning Light is at sea.
	Transmit to the Department before sailing from New York a muster
roll of the crew and a separate list of the officers of the Morning Light.
I am, respectfully,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.~
	Acting Volunteer Lieutenant H. T. MOORE,
Commanding U. S. ship Morning Light, New York.
[Enclosure.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 22, 1861.
	SIR: You will proceed with the U. S. ship Morning Light, under your
command, toward the line in the North Atlantic Ocean and cruise, so
long as your provisions will warrant, in the track of the homeward-
bound merchant ships from the East Indies and Pacific. On your way
out you will pass near the Bermudas; but it is desirable that you should
not enter any port during your cruise unless from necessity.
	Inform the Department, by every fhvorable opportunity, of your
movements, and return to New York wlieii necessary to replenish your
water and provisions. Your object will be to destroy or capture the
vessels of the rebels, should you meet with them, and to protect the
legitimate commerce of your conutry. In the examination of vessels at
sea you will regard the rights of neutrals. You will exercise your
crew at the great guns carefully, and occasionally with shot and shell.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy. I
	Acting Volunteer Lieutenant II. T. MOORE,
Commanding U. S. ship Morning Light, New York.


Report of Commander Palmer, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Iroquois,
regarding C. S. S. Sumter, at Martinique.

U.	S. S. IROQUOIS,
Off St. Pierre, Martinique, November 23, 1861.
	SIR: I think it well in my present provoking and anxious position to
keep the Government informed by whatever opportunity ixiay oiler

Page 212A


Page 212B

UNITED STATES STEAMER IROQUOIS

Page 213

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	213

	It is now the ninth day that I have been blockading the &#38; mter.
She lies still at the wharf, surrounded by more or less of a crowd both
night and day, all anxious for her successful escape, sympathizing with
their fellow Frenchmen of the State of Louisiana, to which State they
believe the Sumter to belong. The authorities, from the governor down,
I believe to be all in her favor.
	I directed the consul the other day (of whom, by the way, I must
retract my first impressions, for he has been most attentive and ener-
getic since my arrival) to call upon the governor and inform him that I
regarded the attitude of the authorities as unfriendly to the United
States. I quote you the consuls reply:
	I called on the governor on Monday night, but could do nothing more than ask an
audience for next day, as his salon was full of people, among them the captain of
the Sumter.
	When I saw him he said the sanitary regulations were such as were enforced on
Monday and that he had no control over them. The vessel, having gone beyond the
regular health and custom-house limits, has lost the right of regular pratique. The
governor, of course, repudiated anything like unfriendliness, and regretted the neces-
sity of submitting to the laws in your case, and would be glad to see you in here at
anchor to prove to you the sincerity of his good wishes.

	Unfortunately for me the coining to an anchor involves the necessity
of waiting twenty-four hours after the departure of the Sumter, for I
have consented to the governors expressed hope that I would abide by
all rules of international law; consequently I am obliged to cruise out-
side and run the risk of her escaping every night. Thus far we have
had the moon, but it is now waning fast, and with the most intense
watching and devotion I fear I may yet have to report her escape.
Would that there were another fast steamer to watch the other point
of the bay.
	I have some understanding with some loyal people on shore to notify
me by signal of her departure.
	The French will doubth~ss think it a great outrage upon their neu-
trality, but they will have to pocket this, as I have been as forbearing
as they can expect, and nothing but feeling the irupolicy of bringing
on hostilities between my country and France makes me submit with
anything like grace.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAS. S. PALMER,
Commander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Escape of the (1. 5. 5. Sumter from the U. S. S. Iroquois at St. Pierre,
Martinique, November 23, 1861.

Report of CommanderPalmer, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Iroquois, of the escape of 0. S. S.
Sumter from Martinique.

U.	S. S. IROQUOIS,
St. Thomas, West Indies, November 25, 1861.
	SIR: As I expected, I have to report the escape of the Sumter, to
the great dejection of us all, for iiever were officers and crew more zeal-
ous for a capture.
	At 8 oclock on the night of the 23d tIme signal was faithfully made
us from the shore that the Sumter had slipped to the southward

Page 214

214	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.

Instantly we were off in pursuit, soon at full speed rushing down to the
sonthern part of the bay, but nothing was visible on the dark back-
ground. A small steamer, apparently one plying between St. Pierre
and Fort Royal, was off the point making signals, doubtless for the
benefit of the Sumter; but we could see nothing of her as we pro-
ceeded on, so dark was the shadow thrown by the high land. Still we
went on, all searching the darkness in vain. As soon as I had opened
Fort Royal Point, and seen nothing on the now open horizon, I con-
cluded that we had passed her, or that she had doubled on us and gone
to the northward. I then turned, keeping close in the shore, looking
into her former anchorage, thinking she might possibly have returned.
	No sign of her there. We continued on to the northward, but when
we opened the point nothing of her this way. We were now at fault
which way to steer. Something like smoke being reported to seaward,
I determined to stand out, taking the direction of St. Thomas, to which
place I was anxious to return ere the vessel with our coal and provi-
sions should leave, and thus check at least a small evil, for I now became
hopeless of ever discovering the Sumter.
	I reached this port this morning and found that the Dacotah, which
had arrived on the 21st from the East Indies, had taken in tow my
vessel with her stores and gone to meet me.
	It is of course all conjecture where the Sumter will next cruise. I
learned at St. Pierre that she had purchased pea-jackets for her crew,
which may look like a cruise on our northern coast, though I question
whether she is calculated for winter service in that quarter. Should
she continue in this vicinity I will soon hear of her from the constant
arrivals here. I shall be glad to understand from the Government
whether they wish inc to respect international law in the ease of the
Sumter, which gives her so great immunity and makes every foreign
port her asylum. I was informed at Martinique that France would
regard it as an act of war if I attacked her anywhere withiii the marine
league of the island.
	I hope the Department will soon inform me of their wishes in respect
to this vessel.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAS. S. PALMER,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Abstract of log of U. S. steam sloop Iroquois, Commander 3. S. Palmer, November 1425, 1861

	November 14.From meridian to 4 p. in., running along the north-
west coast of Martinique. At 2 p. in. made St. Pierre on port bow,
flying Danish colors. At 2:50 made rebel steamer Sumter, lying at
anchor close in shore. Hauled down Danish colors and hoisted Amem-
ican colors. From 8 to midnight, lying off and on St. Pierre, Sum ter
distant one-fourth mile on starboard beam.
	November 15.Lying off and on harbor of St. Pierre, keeping priva-
teer Sumter in sight.
	November 1G.Lying off and on the harbor of St. Pierre. At 12:15
p. m. came to with port anchor, with everything ready for slipping.
At 2:30 received an official visit from the captain of the French man

Page 215

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	215

of-war Aeheron. At 2:35 got under way and lay to off~ the harbor. At
7 stood out of the harbor till 3 miles distant. From 8 to midnight, lying
off the harbor of St. Pierre.
	November 17 to 23.Lying off and on the harbor of St. Pierre, 3
in iles distant from the harbor. Blockading the Sumter in St. Pierre
Harbor.
	November 23.Lying off and on 3 miles from the harbor of St. Pierre.
At 8: 05 p. m. saw signal lights on shore; beat to general quarters and
stood in for South Point iii search of the Sumter; made 7 miles and
went about; searched harbor and stood for North Point.
	November 25.At anchor in the harbor of St. Thomas.




Report of Commander Palmer, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Iroquois, relative to the
escape of C. S. S. Sumter.

U.	S. S. IROQUOIS,
St. Thomas, November 28, 1861.
	SIR: I feel it my duty to inform the Department that I learn reports
are circulating at this port relative to the escape of the Sumter reflect-
ing upon my conduct, going so far as to accuse my loyalty, and that
some of my own officers had expressed dissatisfaction. Doubtless
some of these unjust accusations and base insinuations will find their
way into the l)nblic press. I beg, therefore, that the Department will
either publicly vindicate me, or,if it be not satisfied with my report
of the escape or feel that I have committed an error of judgment,
which I may have done, I may be at once relieved of my command and
the matter made a subject of investigation.
	By an arrival this morning we now learn that the Sumter changed
her course to the northward, being doubtless advised by the signals of
the steamer I spoke of that we were in l)ursuit of her to the southward,
and when I turned to the northward, thinking this might be the case,
she had then (loubled the northern point and was oat of sight, stand.
ing to the eastward, as she captured two days afterw~~rd, in latitude
18~ 30, longitude 58~ 40, the American ship Moutmorenci, from whose
arrival here I gather this intelligence.
	As this vessel was loaded with coal, English property, the Sumter
ransomed her, her captain giving a bond of ~20,000, payable to the
President of the Confederate States at the end of the war, an(l when
she h:id robbed her of all her valuables allowed her to proceed on her
course. When they parted the Sumter was steering to the northward
amid eastward. Where she has gone I can not coi~jecture. The captaiu
of time Moatmoreuci is of the impression that she has gone to the West-
erxi Islands. Possibly we may next linear of her in the Straits of
Gibraltar. There has been aim impression that she needed docking, as
we learned there was much leak about her propeller shaft. In that
case she may have gone to Bermuda.
	I shall leave, if possible, the day after to-morrow and proceed thith.
erward. and shonld I hear nothing of her I shall conclude shehas gone
to cruise in the Straits of Gibraltar; the fact of her having purchased
pea-jackets and laid in a qualitity of sngar and molasses at Martinique
indicates that she has abandoned the West Indies altogether. I shall
return to this port in the course of a fortimight in the hopes of learning
what the Departments wishes are in relation to this vessel, and poss

Page 216

216	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

bly, by the constant arrivals here, of hearing something more of the
Sumter.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAS. S. PALMER,
Commander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.




Extract of letter from Commander Palmer, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Iroquois, to the
Secretary of the Navy, enclosing report of Pilot Anandale, employed to watch the C. S. S.
Sumter.

U.	S. S. IRoQuoIs,
St. Thomas, December 5, 1861.
	SIR:
	*	*	*	*	*	*

	I enclose the report made to me by the person that I had employed
to watch the Sumter during my blockade and to signalize me of her
departure. In these details the Department will perceive the diffi-
culties with which I had to contend and the unwarrantable assist-
ance given by the French authorities. I am glad to say the accounts
given since the arrival of this person, a well-known pilot of this port,
have put a stop, in a measure, to the scandal of which I complained in
my last communication.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAS. S. PALMER,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosure.]


ST. TuoMAS, December 3, 1861.
	SIR: On my arrival at St. Pierre, Martinique, I immediately took up
my quarters on board the American topsail schooner Windward, Steele,
master, where I was cordially received as soon as I made known my
mission.
	I engaged Mr. Rice, mate of the late schooner Danidl Trowbridge (who
has lately been released from captivity on board the Sumter), Mr. Part-
nage, mate of the schooner Windward, and Mr. Crocker, second mate of
the same, for the purpose of keeping watch on the position of the steamer
Sumter and the Iroquois, which were duly made known to rue at each
relief of watch.
	I obtained a powerful night glass, as without it I found it impossible to
keep watch on the Sumter, in consequence of the almost impenetrable
darkness under the high land of Martinique. Watch was strictly kept
np to the night of the 23d ultimo. At 8 oclock p. m. on the 23d of
November the Sumter cast off her stern lines, slipped her port chain,
and steamed out, heading S. W. at about 5 knots an hour. When I per-
ceived her 2 miles distant from her moorings and about two-thirds of a
mile from the southern point of the Bay of St. Pierre, I discharged one
blue light and thirty seconds after discharged a second light

Page 217

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	217

	I immediately discovered the Iroquois standing in for the land, both
vessels in sight, the Sumter inshore, where she could easily discern the
position of the Iroquois. On the approach of the latter the Sumter
ported her helm, stood back for the harbor, and stopped fifteen minutes
nnder the stern of the French war steamer Acheron.
	The Iroquois continued to the southward until hidden from sight by
the southern point of the harbor. As soon as the Sumter perceived the
Iroquois standing into Fort Royal Bay she steamed np the land to the
northward, about one-half cable length from shore. Thirty-five minutes
after the departnre of the Iroquois she caine in sight again at full speed,
standing into the harbor, as if to observe whether the Sumter had not
retnrned to hcr moorings, and then continued to the northward.
	I should have signalized the return of the Sumter, but immediately
after the second blue light was fired the captains gig of the Aeheron,
with an officer of that vessel, was alongside the schooner, and I was not
able to come off in consequence of all communication with the Iroquois
being prohibited, and a special armed force being placed immediately
over the vessel in which I kept watch.
	I am fully convinced that every facility was afforded the Sumter in
her escape. She had an experienced pilot on board for the purpose of
taking her through the reefs to the eastward of Martinique in case of
pursuit by the Iroquois. I have been correctly informed that the Sum-
ter took refuge under the northern point of the island and there lay for
two hours and thirty minutes, when sIte discharged her pilot and pro-
ceeded to sea. One of the French war steamers boats was in the vicinity
of the spot where the Sumter took refuge. I, as allengagedin watching
the Sumter, was fully convinced of the utter impossibility of her being
discovered by the Iroquois in the offshore position which the authori-
ties of Martinique compelled her to observe.
	As soon as possible after the departure of both vessels I took pas-
sage on board the U. S. S. Dacotah for St. Thomas, and in compliance
with Captain McKinstrys orders piloted that vessel to Basse Terre
and Poirite Li Pitre, Guadeloupe, from thence to St. Eustatius and St.
Bartholomew, and theti to St. Thomas, where I arrived and reported
myself at the consulate of the United States of America.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
U.	A. ANANDALE.
	Captain PALMER,
U.	S. S. iroquois.




Order front Secretary of the Navy to Lieutenant Temple, U. S. Navy, com-
manding U. S. S. Ilambeau, relative to supplies.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 25, 1861.
	SIR: In reply to your letter of the 23d instant, in relation to obtain-
ing supplies of provisions, I have to direct that when it becomes neces-
sary to replenish your supplies of provisions you will proceed to Key
West, Fla., where the Department has depots of supplies.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES.
Lieutenant WM. G. TEMPLE,
Commanding U. S. S. Flam beau, New York

Page 218

218	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Commander Ridgely, U. ~. Navy, commanding U. S. S. San-
tijago de Cuba, of arrival at Havana, Cuba, for service in that vicinity.

U.	S. S. SANTIAGO DE CUBA,
Key West, Ela., November 25, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to report to the Department that I arrived at
Havana on the morning of the 17th instant, and immediately put
myself in communication with Consul-General Shufeldt in relation to
my duties at and near Havana.
	The next day I received information from him that three schooners,
under the English flag, laden with contraband, had cleared that day at
the Havana custom-house for St. John, New Brunswick. I immedi-
ately got under way and cruised oft the harbor in the direction of the
Florida channel, about 15 or 20 miles from the harbor, Consul Shnfeldt
being under the impression that the vessels were bound for the coast
of South Carolina or Georgia.
	On the 21st, I spoke the army mail boat from Havana to Key West,
and received a communication from Consul-General Shufeldt informing
me there was great excitement at Havima, in consequence of the San-
tiago de Cuba being signalized there, and advising me to go away for
some days. I immediately shaped my course for this harboi and
arrived here at 11 oclock p. m. on the 1st. I lauded the freight put on
board at New York for the Gulf Squadron, and would have sailed
immediately, but the engine required some slight repairs; these will be
finished this evening, when I shall sail for the Florida Channel, to
intercept the vessels referred to above.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	DANL. B. IIIDGELY,
	Hon. G. WELLES,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commander Schenek, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Saginaw, of visits to various Japanese and Chinese ports.

U.	S. S. SAGINAW,
flongkong, Nocember 27, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that I left Shanghai on the 2d of
September for Japan. I visited the ports of Nagasaki and Kanagawa,
where I conferred freely and fi equently with our consuls, as well as
with the U. S. minister at Yedo, all of whom represented the state of
affidrs to be such as to require no special action on my part, although
the presence of a United States naval force, however insignificant,
al)peared to give comfort and confidence to the American citizens. I
returned to Shanghai on the 12th of October, and left again on the 22d.
Since then I have visited the ports of Ning Po, Foo-Chow, Amoy, and
Swatow, arriving here on the 24th instant. At all the diffhrent ports
I found the flag of the United States was treated with that respect and
deference it has always commanded, and her citizens, for I have met
none but loyal ones, as proud of it as ever.
	I have received your communication of the 1st of August, in refer-
ence to Captain Walter M. Gibson, and shall be on the lookout for him.
A Honolulu paper annoances his arrival at that place on the 30th of
June. He is well known here, and I am satisfied has not yet arrived

Page 219

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	219

	I find the Saginaw requires to be docked in consequence of having
lost some of her copper, and her decks are leaking badly. I shall go
to Whampoa in a few days and make the necessary repairs, which can
be done, I think, in a week, when I will be ready for any service that
may be required of me.
	1 am happy in being able to state that the health of the officers and
crew is good.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient,
JAS. FINDLAY SCHENOK,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.




Report of Captain Glynn, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Macedonian,
of cruise in search of privateers.

U.	S. SHIP MACEDONIAN,
St. Thomas, November 28,1861.
	SIR: I have time only to acknowledge the receipt of your order of the
9th of October.
	I arrived here yesterday from along the Spanish Main, entirely out
of water, on short allowance. 1 expect to fill up again in four or five
days and to sail immediately for Boston. I found the Iroquois, Com-
mander Palmer, here, last from an unsuccessful blockade of the Sumter,
in St. Pierre, Martinique. The Dacotah, Commander MeKinstry, left
here for St. Pierre early on the morning of the 24th, but will probably
be too late for the Sumter.
	I would respectfully call your attention to my letter of October 4,
and renew my recommendation that some such arrangement as is therein
suggested should be adopted by the Navy Department, with the view
of restoring the lost confidence of the trading world in the safety to be
found nuder the flag of the Union.
	I have two men on board that should be tried by court-martial.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAMES GLYNN,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.




[Telegram.]


NAVY YARD, New York, November 28, 1861.
	Nashville has escaped from Charleston. Is coaling at Bermuda. Will
be there till 6th instant. Is lightly armed. Has large amount of treas-
ure. Her destination is Liverpool.
	The above is from consul at Bermuda, date November 1.
H.	PAULDING,

Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES

Page 220

220	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNiON.

Report of Commander Ridgely, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. &#38; San-
tiago de Cuba, of intended cruise to intercept blockade runner Eugenia
Smith.
U.	S. S. SANTIAGO PB CUBA,
Havana, November 29, 1861.
	SIR:	I had the honor to inform the Department of the movement of
this steamer at Key West, November 23. I sailed from Key West on
the evening of the 25th, and cruised between Double Headed Shot Cay
and Havana. I came into this harbor yesterday at noon and com-
menced coaling, and will sail this evening for Matamoras to intercept
the schooner Eu genia Smith, now sailing under English colors with muni-
tions of war on board, and a well-known rebel agent named Zacharie, of
New Orleans, who has been purchasing arms for the rebels iu this port.
	Consul-General Shufeldt thinks the schooners destination positively
Matamoras. I will sail in the direct course for that port and will wait
there some days for her, and return to this port. The English flag is
nsed at this port to carry munitions of war to the rebels. The vessels
employed are generally small fore-and-aft schooners, and they clear ftr
the British provinces and Matamoras, Mexico, with the hope of get-
ting in through the blockade of onr Southern coast, or transporting the
arms from the Rio Grande through Texas.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servamit,
DANE. B. ItIDGELY,
Comm uder, U. S. Navy.
Hon. G. WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Order of Flag- Officer Montgomery, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific
Squadron, to Commander McDou gal, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S.
S.	Wyoming, to cruise on the South American coast.
U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,

Bay of Panama, November 29, 1861.
	SIR:	So soon as you have filled np your water and coal and taken
on board the stores and provisions required for the Wyoming, under
your command, you will proceed with her and cruise along the south-
ern coast as far as Yalparaiso, and from that port accompany, or if nec-
essary tow, the storeship Fredonia to Callao, and upon reaching that
port, afford all necessary aid to Commander J. M. Watson in securely
mooring the Eredomia in a safe and convenient position for the delivery
of stores, as reqnired, to vessels of the squadron in that harbor.
	Having recently heard from his Excellency F. Hassanrek, our minis-
ter at Quito, of the probable renewal of hostilities between Peru and
Ecuador, and consequent attack upon the city of Guayaquil or the block-
ade of its port, when you shall have executed the duties assigned you
at Callao and refreshed your crew, you will proceed to Guayaquil, and
ascertain from the U. S. consul amid such other sources of information
as may be open to you the nature and extent of our interests there
and along the coast of Ecuador which may (in the event of war) prop-
erly claim protection of a naval force, and if on your arrival at that
port you shall find it in a state of siege or blockade it will be your
duty to give protection to the interests of our citizens residing or
sojourning there, and before leaving to effect a satisfactory arrange

Page 221

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	221

ment with the belligerent commanders, for their future security from
interruption or annoyance.
	It is desirable, sir, that you acquaint yourself with the state of feel-
ing existing with the government and people along the coasts of ()hilc~,
Peru, and Ecuador in regard to harboring and affording aid and com-
fort to privateers and vessels nuder the secession flag, in case any such
vessels shall appear on the coasts or enter their ports, and as far as
l)racticable to ascertain what facilities and encouragement, if aity. are
likely to be afforded for fitting out vessels from any of said ports for
privateering purposes.
	When you shall have executed the duty assigned you return with
the Wyoming to Panama, where other instrnctions will await you.
Wishing you, sir, a pleasant and prosperous service,
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Flag- Qificer, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Commander DAVID MODOIJO-AL,

Commanding U. S. Steam Sloop Wyoming, Panama Bay.




[Telegram.]


NEW YORK, November 30 [1861].
	SIR:	information having been received of the destruction of the
American ship Harvey Birch by the rebel steamer Nashville, which had
arrived at Southampton, and in view of further possible attempts at
destruction of American property by said steamer, the board of under-
writers respectfully suggest that armed steamers of sufficient power
be forthwith ordered to cruise in the British and Irish channels and
off the Straits of 0-ibralter to protect the commerce of the United
States.
T.	B. SATTERTHWAITE,
President.
The PRESIDENT.





Order of Secretary of the Navy to Commander LeRoy, U. S. Navy, com-
manding U. S. S. Keystone State,to proceed to sea under sealed orders.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 30, 1861.
	SIR:	As soon as the U. S. S. Keystone State is in all respects ready
you will proceed with her to sea. Transmitted herewith are sealed
instructions, which you will not open until your vessel is at sea. Before
sailing from Philadelphia forward to the Department a muster roll of
the crew and a separate list of the officers of the Keystone State.
I am, respectfully,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commander WM. E. LEROY,	[Secretary of the Navy.]
Commauding Keystone State, Philadelphia

Page 222

	222	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		                   fEnclosuro.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 30, 1861.
	SIR: Proceed with the U. S. S. Keystone State, under your command,
to the island of Bermuda. Your cruising ground wUl be in that vicin-
ity until otherwise ordered by the Department.
	Your main object will be the interdiction of intercourse and traffic
between Bermuda and the insurrectionary States. For this purpose
you will put yourself in communication with our consul there, who will
cooperate with you and afford you such information from time to time
as he m~r come in possession of
	In discharging the duty assigned to you you will be careful of the
rights of neutrals. I enclose herewith for your information a copy of
the iiistructions given by the Department to Commander Ridgely, of
the U. S. S. Santiago de Cuba, which vessel has been ordered to (misc
in the vicinity of Havana. As these instructions will, it is thou gut,
cover any case that may arise with you you will be guided by them.
Advise the Department of your proceedings.
	The U. S. steam propeller Flambean has been directed to cruise among
the Bahamas.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
Commander WM. E. LEROY, U . S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Keystone State, Philadelphia.




Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Rytinge, U. S. Navy, commanding
U.	S. ship Shepherd Knapp, of cruise in search of C. S. S. Sumter.

ST. THOMAS, WEST INDIES, December 1, 1861.
	DEAR SIR: Honored with your sealed orders, I assumed, after leav-
ing New York, the performance of their literal construction, and pro-
ceeded at once as far to the eastward as the Leeward Islands, my ship,
the Shepherd Knapp, proving every way efficient, though remarkably
tender, and requiring at least 150 or 200 tons more ballast. She has
always been remarked as one of the most crank ships out of the port,
and I requested more weight put in her before I left, protesting then
against her proceeding too light to sea with her heavy battery of eight
32s, of 57 cwt. So many vessels were fitting out at the time it became
a difficult task to obtain everything requisite, and I, nuder immediate
order, proceeded to sea.
	Near Martinique I learned of the Sumters beiiig in the neighborhood
of St. Pierre and Fort Royal. I inimediately prepared for action, and
starting in pursnit of the pirate, reached the harbor of St. Pierre, where
I stood off and on, stan ding in near enough to inspect every vessel i~m
port. 1 then discovered she had left a few days before, having escaped
the blockade of the Iroquois, that steamer haviiig her blockaded 1kw
seveii days and then suffering her to escape during the imight. This I
learned through a French boatman, who came off to the ship jim a shore
boat. I gave him a few dollars, and speaking his language fluently,
together with the fact of sending my complimnents to the governor of
the island, to whom I was personally known, I obtained this knowledg

Page 223

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSIJNION.
223

of the Sumter. She had (said my informer) the best sympathy of the
French; had coaled, obtained full supplies of winter clotliiiigevi-
dently going northbut was leaking bad~y, propeller out of order, and
required docking. She made a Ihint of standing to the southward and
then steamed away N. E. (I-~rivate opinion: Gone to the Berinudas,
Azores, or Madeira.)
	Oii this information, deterni med to pursue, I proceeded down the
coast to Fort Royal, gained no intelligence, and felt prompted to carry
press of canvas to ~t. Thomas and see if I could gain any intelligence.
My water and stores lighting my ship so much as to endanger her spars
and battery for want of ballast, I determined to enter the harbor and
take enough stone to allow to continue my cruise safely and fight my
lee guns successfully. I arrived at this port very light and needing at
least 200 tons stone ballast, which at once will go on board, and with
my water filled, will enable to fulfill every instruction until the end
of my cruise. My judgment in regard to the Sumter proved excellent,
for day before yesterday the ASumter was seen 30 miles off this port by
two English steamers, standing N. E. On my anchoring in the harbor
I repaired on board the Macedonian to present myself and orders to
Captain Glynn, and to ask his advice in regard to ballast. He read
my orders and said if my ship was crank and required ballast, it was
cause enough for me to enter port, but that evidently the Government
were desirous I should keep the sea. I replied that my orders read not
to enter port unless necessary, and that in my discretionary judgment
it was imperative for the safety and efficiency of the ship to ballast her.
I shall do so at once with all dispatch and proceed to sea at once, not
again requiring to enter port until the end of the cruise.
	I am sorry my orders will not let me follow the Sumter where I feel
assured she has gone. My officers and crew are very anxious to meet
her, and the discipline of the ship is perfect. I have exercised them at
the great guns with shot and shell and at target practice with much
success. Be assured, my dear sir, I shall, if I sight the Sumter, engage
her, and if so, be prepared to hear the U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp has
carried her enemy.
	The ship is very fast and a desirable one for the service, carrying and
firing her guns well, but requires great weight to counteract her bat-
tery, spars, and heavy house on deck, which, if removed (the house),
she would prove, when iron ballasted, say 60() tons, as good a sloop of
war as there is in the service.
	As yet have seen nothing of the bark W. C. Anderson; hope to fall
in with her daily. Congratulate you on success at Beaufort, N. C., etc.
There is a great deal of secession sentiment here, and much of it is dis-
seminated bydisloyalofficers under the United States flag. It is horrible
to see men under the patronage of the Government stabbing at the breast
of their mother country. God forgive them and place Semmes before
meI ask no more. I shall conquer or die at my guns.
Yours, faithfully,
HENRY S. EYTINGE,

Commanding U. S. Ship Shepherd Knapp.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.

	P.	S.JJuplicate sent to G. V. Fox, esq., and Lieutenant J. M. Wain-
wright. A New Orleans ship of 1,000 tons, in ballast from. Rio, is
expected here; I shall take her, 1 hope, if I find her outside

Page 224

224	OPERATIONS 01? THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Captain Wynn, U. &#38; Navy, commanding U. S. ship Iliacedoni an,
of movements of vessels in search of (I. S. S. Sumter.

U.	S. SHIP MACEDONIAN,
St. Thomas, West Indies, December 2, 18G1.
	SIR: I expect to sail for Boston to-morrow early. Four days since,
the American ship ]Jiliontmorenci, of Bath, Me., arrived at this port,
having been overhanled at 3 p. m. on the 25th December [November]
(civil account) by the Smnter, in latitude 180 30 N., longitude 580 40 W.
The ship was last from Wales, England, loaded with coal for the Brit-
ish Mail Steamship Company at this place. The ship was ransoined
for $20,000 and allowed to proceed after taking a quantity of paints
and other ships stores from her.
	We hear from St. Pierre that the Iroquois passed in the night within
600 yards of the Sumter, she having run into a small cleft in the rocks,
where she was hidden by the high land and could see the Iroquois to
seaward and remain unseen by her pursuer. Captain Palmer seems to
have exercised proper skill and perseverance npon this occasion,
although not successful in his object.
	The Iroquois sailed again three days since in pursuit of the Sumter.
The Dacotah returned here on the 30th of November and expects to
sail to-morrow for Boston. I avail myself of the opportunity to forward
this commnnication. The U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp, Volunteer Acting
Lieutenant Commanding Eytinge, arrived here three days since. Her
commander thinks the ship is in need of a good deal of repairs for a
vessel just out from the United States, but unless she really requires
200 tons more ballast to make her safe, as he says, there is nothing to
justify her being iu port, while her orders evidently intended she should
keep the sea as long as practicable.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAMES GLYNN,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

	P. S.6 p. m. The Iroquois has just now returned and anchored
again, having been cruising to the northward and eastward, but with-
out having heard anything further of the Sumter.
J.G.


Report of Commander Marchand, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. James
Adger, of cruise to intercept supposed blockade runner -Gladiator, enclos
	ing correspondence.	U. S. ~. JAMES AnGER,

Hampton Roads, December 2, 18G1.
	SIR:	From Southampton, England, on the 9th ultimo, I had the
honor to advise you of my intention to leave that place to return to the
United States on the following day; some additional defects in the
engine were discovered, which delayed until the 11th, when, on going to
the English Channel, found the violence of a southwest gale and heavy
sea too great to make progress and uselessly consume fuel, we returned
and remained at anchor until 2 oclock next morning (November 12),
when we succeeded in getting into the channel.
	In my communication above mentioned I also informed you that the
propeller Gladiator, of London, had left with munitions of war, designed

Page 225

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
225
as supposed, to run the blockade of the Southern ports of the United
States, but subsequently it was ascertained that she did not obtain a
clearance from the London custom-house until the afternoon of the 9th.
It was a mortification that I could not get into the English Channel
sooner, yet I was fully satisfied that the Gladiator, if she had started,
could not have passed before we were outside on acconnt of the extreme
badness of the weather, which set in only a few hours after it was said
she had obtained a clearance. We slowly passed down the English
Channel watching for, and if seeing, to follow her to sea. It was my
intention to capture her if possible, although I neither possessed nor
could obtain any evidence to condemn her other than that verbally
given by the U. S. consul at London (subsequent to his letter of the 5th
of November, a copy of which is enclosed) that the reputed owner would
be required to prove the true ownership and destination of the vessel,
in which reasoning I could not acquiesce. I was verbally informed
that the company fitting out the Gladiator had originally designed run-
ning her nominally for Honduras or Mexico, but if possible into one of
the southern ports of the United States, irrespective of the blockade,
but the arrival of the James Adger at Queenstown caused them to alter
their course of proceeding. They changed her officers and sent her as
a British merchautman with all legal forms to Nassau, an English port,
with the hope that in the event of her capture to cause a rupture
between the Government of England and the United States ,by which
they would ultimately be benefited. Thus, upon leaving Southampton,
I was placed in an embarrassing position; still I determined on captur-
ing her, if possible, and if found out of the direct course to her legal
place of destination the better.
	Knowing the decev~tion practiced by the Confederates and their
agents and instead of going to TenerilTh, where it was said she would
touch, the Gladiator might run for the Azores, I shaped a course for
Fayal, the only coaling place in that group, and where we arrived on
the morning of the 19th. The Gladiator had not been there, and we,
after having taken on board 74 tons of coal, left the same evening.
Knowing the uncertaiiity of finding the Gladiator and deeming from
Flag-Officer iDu Ponts instructions the necessity for this steamer being
on our coast, I steered for the Chesapeake Bay.
All vessels were scrutinized on our honieward passage, and, without
finding any suspicious one, arrived here this day.
	In his last letter, dated the 8th ultimo, the U. S. consul at London
gave the information that a clipper bark of about 300 tons would leave
London in about a week from that time with a cargo of munitions of
war for some Southern port.
	I have further the honor to send copies of note and letter from the
U. S. ministers at Brussels and London, the consul at London, and
from Mr. G. F. Train, in relation to the Gladiator.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	J.	B. MARCHAND,
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
&#38; cretary of the Navy, Washington.	Commander.

[Enclosure No. i.J


LXiATION DES ]5~TATS UNIS,
Bruxe~ ~es, November 3, 1861.
DEAR SIR: I beg to commend to your confidence Captain Eastman,
of Maine, the bearer of this, who goes to England at my request to
123A1

Page 226

226	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

render what service he can in thwarting the rebels in their projected
enterprise of running the blockade with auother cargo of coutrabaud
of war.
	He will tell you verbally what he knows respecting the steamer about
leaving with a large cargo of munitions of war (among which are 25,000
rifles). She is undoubtedly the property of time rebels, and intended for
a privateer, although going out-with English papers.
	Your arrival is most opportune, and I confidently expect she will,
with your assistance~ reach a Northern port in safety.
	Respectfully, yonrs,	H. ~. SANFORD.

Captain JARCHAND
Steamer James Adger.

[Enclosure No. 2.1


LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES,
London, November 5, 1861.
	DEAR SIR: Captain Eastman, the bearer, is directed to communi-
cate to you such information as he is possessed of respecting the move-
ments of a vessel going from this port. If, upon the evidence he
furnishes, you feel yourself able to act without hesitation, outside of
jurisdiction of any neutral power, ~it will be perhaps accomplishing a
result that may justify you in v rying froni any orders you may have
received. Much m ust be left to your own discretion, so that I do not
tie your hands.
I aum ,your obedient servant,	~. F. ADAMS.

Captain MARCuAND
Of the James Adger.

[Enclosure No. 3.]


LONDON, November 5, 1861.
	SIR: Having learned that you with the ship James Adger are on
the English coast, I think it highly important that you should be
prom iptly informed that time screw steamer now called the Gladiator is
loading in the river Thai es with powder, cartridges, caps, rifles, shells,
cannon, blankets, and other military stores for the Confederates in the
rebel States of America, ud th~ t it is the purpose of those who control
her movements to run the blocka e. The steamer is about 700 tons~
1 year old, a good vessel, and will take out a large and valuable cargo.
That it is for the Southern rebels I am entirely satisfied. The proof is
positive. She will drop down the river to morrow (Wednesday) noon,
but will not probably go to sea before Thursday, though she may
Wednesday night. It is said she will clear for Madeira. She will
probably call there for coal.
	Though I have the.strongest reasons for believing that she has recently
become Confederate property, she will sail under the protection of Brit-
ish papers and the Biitish flag and make time legal transfer by register
after reaching a Southern port. If the object of your visit will permit
you to watch her movements or obstruct timein before reaching the
Anmei5can coast, you must judge of time and place. But as it is of the
very highest importance that she should be prevented from reachin

Page 227

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	227

her final port of destination, we shall be greatly gratified if your instruc-
tions will permit you to give her all the attention necessary.
I am, most sincerely, yours, etc.,
	Commander MARCHAND	F. II. MORSE,
	U. S. Consul.
U.	S. S. James Adger.
	P. S.The bearer, Captain Eustis [Eastman 0?] has seen the steamer
and will give you a full description.
[Enclosure No. 4.]

CONSULATn OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
London, Nocember 8, 18G1.
	SIR: I herewith endose a description of the Confederate steamer
Gladiator. It was made by a confidential clerk who has been to her
twice, and it conforms with my own observation. She is an iron screw of
about 700 tons, English measurement; she is deeply loaded, and has on
board 20,240 guns and Enfield rifles, a Large quantity of powder, car-
tridges, caps, shells, cartridge paper, blankets, army cloths, etc. Her
cargo is just what the rebels now most need, and to them it x ill be of
very great value. She draws near 10 feet of water forward and 14
feet aft, is 1 year old, and will run 10 miles per hour with her present
cargo in, so I am told. Her striking features are that she is long, sets
low or down in the water aft, has a round stern, an upright stem. with-
out billet or figurehead, three masts, main and mizzeit, without yards,
foremast with three yards rigged like a topsail schooner, black hull
funnel between fore and main mast, white side boats. I understand her
name will be obliterated
color and rig.	, and perhaps when out she may change her
She is entered outward at the custom-house, as I have just learned
by examination, at first for Lisbon, Mogadore, and the Canaries. She
was again afterwards reentered out for Teneriffe, Nassau, and Hon-
duras. Nassau and Honduras were nearly obliterated. She is not et
cleared at the custom-house, but no doubt went to sea last evenin~, as
she left a point 12 miles below London yesterday afternoon between 2
and 3 p. in. She was sold on October 31 by the Peninsula an(l North
African Steam Navigation Company to Melehir G. Klengender. She is
registered in London November 2 and mortgaged for [~]l5,000.
	This sale is no doubt a blind. I have good reasons for believing she is
Confederate property, though she goes out un(ler the l)rotection of the
English flag and English papers, ith the purpose of completing the
transfer on her arrival in one of the rebel ports. rfhe master is Captain
Bird, who once or lately commanded the British steamer Oldelin. She
had several passengers on board when she went down the river.
	A clipper bark of about 300 tons will leave iii about one week with a
similar cargo for some Southern port.
	No doubt the steamer that hasjust left will take the southern route and
perhaps touch at the port she has entered outward for, unless she clears
for some other after leaving, coal at some convenient place, and make
her way into a Southern port if possible. I hope you will keep close on
her track and gr tify tile country by catching her. I shall be glad to
hear that this reaches you before you sail.
Very sincerely, yours, etc.,
		F.	H. MORSE,
	Captain J. B. MARCHAND,		 U. S. Consul.
U.	S. S. James Adger

Page 228

228	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from J. II. Young, esq., to the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury
relative to the capture of American brig Betsey Ames by the Confederate
privateer [Sallie].

NAVAL OFFICE, NEW YORK, December 2, 18G1.

	M~ DEAR SIR: The brig Betsey Ames, Bartlett, master, stated in
Charleston papers to have been taken in there as a prize, cleared from
this port on the 2d of November for Carden as, is 265 tons register, built
at Wells, Me., and owned there.
	This brig was laden with general cargo, shipped by ~n English house,
who have called upon me and given the following facts relative to our
commercial relations with the West undies. They state that the cargo
was shipped on an order from their friends in Cuba; subsequently coun-
termanded in consequence of large shipments from New York via the
British provinces; that a great portion of the merchandise now arriving
out there from England and other sources is on orders for the insurgents;
that the trade is chiefly in the hands of prominent merchants here, in
connection with the most prominent houses in the West Indies and on the
Spanish Main, and that this business extends from points as far distant
as Paramaribo and Demerara to Sabanilla and Cartagena, on the coast.
I have positive information that large orders for arms have been here
since April last from merchants in the Netherlands West Indies, and
there is sufficient reason to believe that they were for the Confederates.
The house to whom the order came is loyal, and refused to fill it either
through their connections in England or the Netherlands, yet it is a
delicate matter to them, and they beg me to protect their correspondent.
My duty to the Department and my country is greater than all other
considerations, and I feel that all facts of this character should be placed
before the Government in this crisis.
	The experience gained, by many years residence in the West Indies
and on the Spanish Main leads me to believe that the insurgents con-
duct most of their negotiations for supplies contraband of war through
agents there in connection with Northern capital.
I have the honor to be, sir, your very obedient servant,
JAMES II. YOUNG.
Hon. GEORGE IIARRINGToN,
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, Washington, D. C.


Letter from the Yew York and Havre Steamship Company to the Post-
master- General, reporting detention of mail steamship Fulton from fear
of C. S. S. Nashville.

OFFICE OF THE NEW YORK AND HAYRE S. S. Co.,
7 Broadway, New York, December 2, 1861.
	SIR:	The appearance of the privateer Nashville on the other side of
the Atlantic has so frightened shippers and passengers that the steam-
ship Fulton, advertised to leave on Saturday, 7th instant, with the
United States mails, is for the present withdrawn, her owners being
unwilling to sustain the loss which would certainly accrue to them from
dispatching their vessel under existing circumstances.
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant,
GEO. MACKENZIE,
Agent.
lion. M. BLAIR,
Postmaster- General

Page 229

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
229
Letter from the New York Board of Underwriters to the Secretary of the
Navy, urging the need of armed vessels on English and French coasts
for protection of commerce.

OFFICE o~ THE BOARD oi UNDERWRITERS,
New York, December 2, 1861.
	SIR: At a meeting of the Kew York Board of Underwriters held this
day the undersigned were appointed a committee to urge upou the
U. S. Government the importance of placitig armed vessels on the
English and French coasts for the purpose of protecting the commerce
of the country from the depredations of privateers or other armed
vessels hostile to the United States.
	In furtherance of the duty assigned them they have inquired and
learn that the steamer Fulton (now in this port from Havre), having
already discharged her cargo, may be chartered or purchased, and
being in every respect both as regards hull and machinery in perfect
order, can be sent to sea as soon as an armament could be placed on
her, and with a force of 100 or 200 men could take the Nashville or any
other steamer that is or can be sent out by the rebels.
	This steamer would, in the opiuiou of the undersigned, be found to
be exceedingly useful as a dispatch boat, being of great speed, and
could be fitted for this purpose in much less time than any other steamer
not now employed by the Government on other service.
	Hoping that the Department may consider the subject as of sufficient
importance to commerce to take immediate action in the premises, we
are, very respectfully, sir, your most obedient servants,
F.	S. LATHROP,
M.	II. GRINNELL,
LEOPOLD D. BJERWIRTH,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Committee.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.

[Endorsement.]


	A steamer is to be dispatched forthwith.
		W[ELLES].





Report of Gommander Palmer, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Iroquois,
of movements of U. S. vessels in West indies searching for C. S. S.
Sumter.
U.	S. S. IROQUOIS~
St. Thomas, i)ccernbcr 5, 1861.
	SIR: The day after my last communication, while the ]Jffacedonian
was still in port, I went on a cruise, remaining out four days in the
Anegada passage for a reported strange steamer, but heard nothing 01
her. This, however, could not have been the Sumter. Upon my return
I found the schooner laden with my coal and provisions arrived from
Martinique. I have now discharged her, and am now filling up the
remainder of my coal, and will probably get off the (lay after to-morrow
on my projected cruise toward the Bermudas. The iliLacedonian an

Page 230

180 onaamxts oP In otulsflsu1#IOt

Dtwotah sailed the day before yesterday for Boston. The armed vessel
Shepherd Ksapp is in port adding to her ballast.


I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAS. S. PALMER,
Commasder.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretory of the Navy, Wa.hisgtos, D. (1.


lest rusctioss from the Secretory of the Navy to Commauder Crams, U. &#38; 
.Navy, commasdAssg U. &#38; &#38; Tucarora~ to ptoceed to Bsglwud is search
of 0. &#38; &#38; Nashville sad forproteesion of Americas istereste.

NAn DEPARTMENT, December 6,1861..
	SIR: The steamer Nashville is understood to have crossed the Atlan-
tic, and at the last dates was at Southampton, England, having on her
passage captured and destroyed by fire the American ship Harvey
Birch.
	This wanton destruction of the property of our merchants upon the
high seas requires punishment and must receive immediate attention.
 You will therefore proceed without delay to the English coast, and
ascertain as soon as possible whether the Nashville is at Southampton
orat any other place within the United Kingdom, making it a primary
object to seize that vessel whenever you can do so without invading
the neutral rights or jurisdiction of England or any other stats. You
will, as soon as possible after your arrival out, put yourself in commu-
nication with our minister, Mr. Adams, and you will also consult with
the consuls at Liverpool, London, and elsewhere, in regard tothe Nash-
ville and other matters of American interest.
	What course may be taken by the English authorities with the Nash.
ville, a vessel without a recognised flag or authority, which has been
guilty of the piratical act of capturing and burning the merchant ship
of rnation at peace with that Government and the world, and then
seeking refuge in her ports, we have at present no means of ascertain-
lug.
	Should the Nashville have left England for the United States you
will not return, unless with a tolerable degree of certainty that you can
overtake and capture her, it being the Intention of the Government to
keep an ned vessel on the other side of the Atlantic to protect
American commerce and guard American interests.
	Recently several vessels, the Bensu4, the Gladiator, the FM gal, and
Watsos, and others not enumerated, have fitted out in English ports,
 laden with arms, munitions, and contraband of war, clearing with
British papers and sailing under the English flag, which vessels have
notoriouslybeen destined for, and most of them have reached, the insur-
rectionary regions of our country with supplies for the rebels.
	Thisabuse must be corrected and this traffic stopped. It will there-
fore be an important part of your duty to attend to this matter. Care-
fully avoid trespassing on neutral rights while vigilantly and hrmly
exercising your own. You will abstain from the seizure of any vessel
within the maritime jurisdiction of any state, but will on the high
	 exercise the right of visitation and search to prevent arms, muni-
tions, or articles contraband of war from being transported to aid the
rebel enemies of this country. Should it be deemed necessary or
advisable for you to visit other places than the English coast, you wil

Page 231

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	231

do so, advising in those cases, when time will admit, with Mr. Adams,
with whom you will at all times freely communicate and from whom
you will receive suggestions and directions.
	Great discretionary power is given you from the necessities of the
case. You will consult with onr minister and consuls as you have
opportunity, availing yourself of any information derived from them
to assist and regulate your judgment and action. Cultivate, friendly
relations with all.
	The Department has great confidence in your ability, courage, firm-
ness, decision, and wisdom, and entrusts you with extraordinary pow-
ers, which may all be called in requisition for the good of the service
and of the country. Wishing you a successful and useful cruise,
I am, respectfully, yonr obedient servant,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commander T. A. M. CRAVEN,	[Secret ry of the Navy.]
Commanding U. S. S. Iluscarora, New York.

Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Creesy, U. S. Navy, commanding

U.	S. ship Th o, of cruise in search of privateers.

U.	S. SHIP INO, at Sea, December 6, 1861.
	SIR: I have the pleasure to enclose herewith corrected copy of mus-
ter roll, together with abstract log of this ship continued from d te of
that last sent per ship fJrey Feather; also list of vessels boarded, and
another of those spoken, with the relative position of each. Having
cruised in the vicinity of the equator a long time and falling in with
nothing of an4 unfriendly character, and 1e ruing of no depredation
having been committed by the eneniies of the United States upon its
commerce in that vicinity, concluded my chances of falling in with some-
thing may be improved by cruising further northward on the route, as
instructed by the Department.
	I am grieved in being obliged to prefer charges against my executive
and second officer, Messrs. Endicott and Dunton. On the part of the
first is great want of dignity an(1 attention to his business. Owing
to his disobedience of orders we are getting short of w Icr, having
sufficient only for about forty days, used with gr at care. The tenden-
cies of the conduct of Mr. Dunton would be to subvert the discipline of
the ship; not safe to leave in charge of the ship as a watch officer, owing
to his sleeping propensities. Duty compels me to prefer these charges.
	On account of the season, the ship being very tender in consequence
of want of ballast, produced in part by the consumption of stores, crew
nearly out of clothing, paymasters stock given out, and a want of
water, will oblige me to start for Boston a little earlier than under other
circumstances. It will be safe to expect her in Boston from the 1st to
10th January, 1862.
	The health of the mos crew is excellent, and with the exceptions
named they are a very worthy set of men. Mr. Parker, my third officer,
together with the masters mates, are superior men.
	Trusting this will merit your satisfaction, I remain, sir, with the
highest respect, your most obedient servant,
JOSIAH P. CREESY,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding U. S. Ship Lw.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Nary of the United States

Page 232

	232	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		The Eugenia Smith affair, December 7, 1861.

Report of Commander Ridgely, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. Santiago do Cuba, of seizure of
Messrs. Zacharie and Rogers on board the English schooner Eugenia Smith.

U.	S. S. SANTIAGO BE CUBA,
Havana, December 18, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that I left Havana on the evening
of November 29 in pursuit of the English schooner Eagenia Smith. I
steamed on the course to the Rio Grande at 10 knots, until satisfied I
had passed the schooner, or missed her at night, or that she had taken
an indirect course. Thinking it important that the rebel agent on
board should he taken, I kept on for the iRio Grande.
	On the evening of December 3, Point Isabel bearing west distant
90 miles, I overhauled the English schooner Victoria, of 72 tons, from
Point Isabel, with a rebel clearance, and having 11 passengers, 8 of them
from States in rebellion against the Government. I took possession of
the schooner for entering and sailing from a port closed by proclama-
tion of the President of the United States, and in violation of an act of
Congress approved July 13, 1861. I transferred the passengers to this
ship, in consequence of their number and the small size of the schooner,
which obviated sending a large prize crew oa board. I put a prize
crew on board under charge of Acting Master A. W. Muldaur, and
ordered him to proceed to Galveston and report to the officer command-
ing blockade off Galveston, as the schooner was captured within Flag-
Officer McKeans command.
	I made for the Rio Grande, where I anchored off the coast of Texas.
On the 7th we made a sail standing in for the land. I steamed after
her, and found she was the British schooner Eugenia~ Smith with two
passengers on board, Mr Zacharie, of New Orleans, and T. S. Rogers,
of Texas, rebel agents. The consuls letter will explain the case of
the former, and the latter had in his possession papers proving him
to be an agent of the rebel Government. I examined the schooner
thoroughly, but could find no contraband. She had passed through
two U. S. custom-houses since she changed her flag (Key West and
New York), as late as the 5th of October, and I thought I would not
be justified in seizing her. I steamed to Galveston in twelve hours
from the Rio Grande to see what disposition the commanding officer
had made of the prize. Captain Eaole of the Santee, was there, but
took no action in the matter. I took the prize in tow for Key West,
and when we were 250 miles from the Tortugas, the sea being
too rough to tow the schooner, I ordered the prize master to make
the best of his way to Key West and report himself to the U. S.
district attorney there. The Santiago de Cuba arrived at Key West
at 11 p. m. of the 12th, and the next morning I landed the passen-
gers at Fort Taylor. Major B. II. Hill, the commanding officer,
administered the oath of allegiance to and discharged seven of
them~ six of them he retained as persons who might do the United
States an injury. I came immediately over to flavana to take in
coal, which was nearly exhausted, and to make some slight repairs
to the engine.
	Mr. Zacharie, of New Orleans, informed me that the British consul,
Mr. Crawford, would have given the schooner he left Havana in a con-
voy if Mr. T. Butler King, of Georgia, had taken passage in her, and
that he had written for a man-of-war to convoy the rebel schooner Par

Page 233

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	233

liament, with British colors, commanded by a man named Gladden,
formerly a lieutenant in the U. S. revenue service.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	DANL. B. RIDGELY,
	Hon. G. WELLES,	Commander, U. AS~. N.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosure.]


U.	S. CONSULATE-GENERAL IN CUBA
flavana, November 29, 1861.
	SIR: I am informed that the English schooner Eugenia Smith, Smith,
master, sailed from this port on the morning of the 28th instant for
Matamoras, having on board as passenger a well-known agent of the
Confederate Government, Mr. Zacharie, of New Orleans, who has been
employed in the purchase of arms, etc., at this port.
	This schooner was formerly an American vessel of 160 tons, belong-
ing to New York, where the family of the master now resides. She is
a fore-and-aft vessel and sails well; but if you could get to sea to-mor-
row morning it is possible you cpuld overtake her. Her destination is
undoubtedly the above port or its vicinity.
	The capture of the cargo (munitions of war, etc.) and of the above-
mentioned agent is of great importance. If you determine to go, I
need not impress upon you the necessity of the utmost secrecy. This
vessel, I am told, was cleared from the office of the captain of the port
by her Britannic Majestys vice-consul, with a request that her mani-
fest should be kept from the public.
Iam,sir, your obedient servant,
R.	W. SHUFELDT.
	Commander D. B. RIDGELY,
U.	S. S. Santiago de Cuba.



Letter from Commander Ridgely, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Santiago de Cuba, transmit-
ting copies of letters found in possession of Confederate agents Zacharie and Rogers.


U.	S. S. SANTIAGO DE CUBA,
At Sea, December 20, 1861.
	SIR: I herewith enclose copies of letters found in possession of
Thomas S. Rogers, of Texas, taken from the British schooner Eugenia
Smith, the originals in possession of Major B. H Hill
military post, Key West.	- commanding
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
	IDANL. B. IRIDO-ELY,
	Hon. G. WELLES,	Commander, U. S. Navy.

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

rEnclosuresi

HAVANA, CUBA, November 23, 1861.
	DEAR SIR: Enclosed please find Mr. Charles Lempriens letter; also
a copy of a contract that I now have with the Confederate Govern-
ment, which I am inclined to think will pay well. And should yo

Page 234

234	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

feel dispo ed to enter into a business of this kind with me I will allow
you 33~ per cent above your invoice, cost, and charges in London, and
then turn them over to our Government at 33~ per cent advance of cost
and charges, delivered at any point in the Confederate States, and
either pay you in cotton at the market price or in exchange on London,
or gold and silver.
	We ixow have one port open, which can not be blockaded, which is
the Rio Grande River, xvhich divides Texas and Mexico. Small schoon-
ers leave here every day for that l)ort.
	The above-named profit will amount to about 100 per cent. Now,
should you wish to enter into this business, I am willing to give you
two-thirds, which I think will pay well. Mind you, all expenses, time,
traveling, etc., are to be added to the invoices. Please let me hear
from you by return mail and I will visit you via return steamer if you
answer favorably.
Address me Havana, Cuba, Hotel Cubana, an(l much oblige,
Your obedient servant,
THOMAS S. ROGERS,
Agent.
Mr. GEORGE BURGESS,
London.


HAvANA, November 24, 1861.
	DEAR BURGESS: Will any client of yours take a contract under the
following copy ~ There is everything open here, and the return money
in cotton will pay everyone well. I am on my way to Mexico, and shall
be back here in January, when I could attend to any certification your
client might require. I am able to recommend the present holders of
this letter.
	Yours, ever,	CHARLES LEMPRIEU.

GEORGE BURGESS, Esq.,
71 Lincoln Inn Fields, London.



CONFEDERATE STATES OF AMERICA,
WAR 1)EPARTMENT, ORDNANCE OFFICE,
Richmond, Va., July 16, 1861.
	SIR:	This bureau will receive from you any or all of the ibilowing
articles at any point within the Confederate States, npou the proper
inspection and at the rates specified:
	From 50,00) to 150,000 pounds rifle powder, 250,000 to 350,000 pounds
musket powder, 50,000 to 150,000 pounds cannon powder, for which they
will pay 30 cents, or ~ per cent above invoice cost and charges; from
10,000 to 100,000 Minie muskets, at $30, or 334 per cent above cost and
charges; from 10,000 to 100,000 Enfield rifles, at $30, or 334 per cent
above cost and charges; 2,000 artillery sabeis, at $10, or 334 per cent
above cost and charges; 5,000 breech-loading carbines for horse, at $35,
or ~ per cent above cost and charges; 2,000 Colts navy or army pis-
tols, at $30, or 334 per cent above cost and charges; 200 carboys nitric
acid, strong, at 334 per cent above cost and charges; 20,090 pounds
block tin, in pi6s, at 50 cents, or 334 per cent above cost and charges;
1,000 boxes common tin, larger size, at 334 per cent above cost and
charges

Page 235

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSIJNION.	235

	Payment will be made either upon the certificate of the inspecting
officer or quartermaster, or, in the absence of either, the ccrtific te of
the custom-house officer of the Confederate Government at the point
where the articles are delivered, or upon such certificates of delivcry
aftcr inspection and approv 1. The Department will pay to the value
of deliveries at New Orleans such drafts as may be drawn by you on
the assistant treasurer of the Confederate States to cover snch pur-
chases and deliveries.
	Signed, with the approval of the President.
J.	GoR~As,
Major and Chief .of Ordnance, Confederate States.
GEORGE IL. GWDINGs,
San Antonio, Tex.


Letter of Mr. J. W Zacharie to Hon. R. 1W. T. Hunter, Secretary of State of the Confederate
States, transmitting statement of the circumstances ef his seizure.

T~JcIJMONn, January 16, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to hand you, as requested, a copy of my state-
ment nuder oath of the circumstances of the outrage lately committed
on myself on board the British schooner Eugenia Smith, sailing under
the British flag in the waters of Mexico, which I drew up at the request
of her Britannic Majestys consul of this city and this day furnished
him.
	Ii trust that the Government of the Confederate States will think
proper to present to time Government of Great Britain what I can not
but consider a just claim for indemnity for damages I have suffered.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	W. ZACHARIE.
	Hon. R 1W. T. HUNTER,
Secretary of State of the Confederate States, Richmond, Va.


J.	W. Zacharie, mereb ant of the city of New Orleans, being duly
sworn, declares:	_
	That he sailed as passenger on board of the British schooner P genia
Smith, F. Smith, master, of Nassau, New Providence, from Havana,
island of Cuba, on the 27th of November last, bound for the Mexican
port of Matamoras, on the Rio Grande. Her car~o consisted of 183.
bales of India gunny cloth and 100 of English long cloths, the whole
shipped as British property, insured in England. On reaching the
coast of Mexico, on the 7th of December ultirno, within 3 miles of the
shore, in 6 fathoms water, the umouth of the Rio Graude bearing N.
W. by N., the Eugenia Smith was fired at and subsequently hailed
by the U. S. S. Santiago de Cuba, which ordered her to lower her sails
and come to uchor. She did so, and thereupon boat with 12 mem
armed with cutlasses and re~~olvers, under the comnmamid of Lieutenant
Gibson, of the U. S. Navy, came alongside and demamided to know
whether Mr. Zacharie was on bo rd. The deponent replied in tile
affirmative, and desired to know what was wanted of him. Lieutenant
Gibson informe him that Captain D. B. Ridgely desired to see him on
board of the U. S. ship Santiago de Cuba. Deponent then asked
whether it was a courteous invitation on the part of Captain Ridgely

Page 236

236	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.

or one to entrap him from under the protection of the British flag. If
it were the latter, he protested most solemnly against going.
	Lieutenant Gibson informed him that the ship had been expressly
sent for him. Deponent then reminded him (Lieutenant G.) that the
vessel was in Mexican waters, and that the treaty between the United
States and Mexico declared that free ships made cargoes and persons
free, excepting contraband goods and naval and military officers, of
which the deponent was neither; but as he supposed might made
right, it would be folly for him to attempt to resist the force which the
lieutenant had with him, and he asked permission to change his dress,
which, being granted, he did so, and accompanied Lieutenant Gibson
on board the steamer Santiago de Cuba.
	Upon his being introduced to Captain Ridgely, deponent demanded
of him the reasons of his arrest, reminding him of his being in Mexican
waters, and requested to know if he had any process from Mexican
authorities to arrest him. Captain IRidgely replied that the reasons
would be made known to him in due course of time. Deponent was
requested by a sergeant of marines to go below, when lie was rudely
searched, ordered to take off his hat, coat, and boots, and upon turn-
ing his pockets inside ont there were taken from him his money, his
pocket and memorandum books, his portemonnaie, together with every
scrap of paper which he had with him.
	On his being released from the inquisitions of the sergeant, Captain
Ridgely inquired whether he had brought his baggage on board.
Informing the captain that it had not been so brought, and that it was
much scattered in the cabin of the schooner, and that he could scarcely
describe with accuracy what lie had, the deponent desired that he
might be allowed to go on board to collect the various articles. This
was granted, and on the deponents return on board he saw the men of
the U. S. steamer busily engaged in hoisting out of the schooners hold
the cargo. They had broken open the hatches, and had many bales of
gunny cloth on the deck, and from the appearance of the cabin he
judged that they had been overhauling it and ransacking her lockers
to find letters and papers, which were not to be found, the captain of
the schooner having delivered to Lieutenant Gibson ~ll that he had.
These, after being examined by Captain IRidgely, were pronounced to
be all in order, and the vessel was allowed to continue her voyage.
Deponent on his return to the steamer was again overhauled and his
trunk and carpetbag thoroughly searched, but nothing could be found
in any way calculated to place him in a false position.
	Deponent, with every form of solemnity, declares that lie has never
been employed in any way as an agent of the Confederate Govern-
ment, although acknowledging himself heart and soul sympathizing in
the cause which in this instance was entirely disconnected from his
presence in the waters of Mexico. From the coast of that Republic he
was forcefully abducted and conveyed to Key West, where he was
placed in Fort Taylor, remaining there nine days, not being allowed to
communicate with her Britannic Majestys consul, who, as the deponent
understood, had called at the fort but was not admitted.
	Deponent was thence transferred to the steamer Baltic on the 21st
of December ultimno, and he reached New York in the morning of the
26th, when lie was removed to Fortress Lafayette, whence he was
liberated on the 1st of January instant, at about 2 oclock p. in., and
was told that he and his fellow-passenger, as well as fellow-prisoner,
T. S. Rogers, were at liberty to go where they pleased. I)eponents
memorandum books, together with a cotton bond of the Confederat

Page 237

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
237
States of $50 and other valuable papers, were taken from him and
were unreturned, without the assigiimeut of any cause for their deten-
tioi.
	Deponent, by this interruption and detention from his business, has
sustained heavy losses. He had made arrangements in different
quarters for the shipment for his account and consignment to hi~xi at
Matamoras of a large amount of property, and had chartered vessels
to load back with cotton, which he had contracte(l for, to be delivered
at Matamoras at 12 cents per pound, on which he fully estimated to
realize a large profit, which would have been realized as subsequent
events have proved. These losses, personal vexatious, and damage to
his health he estimates at the sum of $100,000, all of which he con-
siders he had the right to be protected from by the British flag, under
which he sailed and in which he relied with full confidence. He trusts
that her Majestys Government will not hesitate to indemnify him.
They will unquestionably be entitled to reimbursement by the United
States, under whose authority the injury was inflicted.
	Deponent, in conclusion, states that the schooner Eugenia Smith was
a British vessel regularly registered, and had been recognized as such
by the United States authorities at the port of New York, whence she
had just come from when chartered at Havana.
J.	W. ZACHARIE.
CONFEDERATE STATES OF AMERICA,
Eastern district of Virginia, to wit:
	On this 16th day of January, A. D. 186~, personally appeared before
the undersigned, a Confederate States commissioner duly commissioned
and qualified according to law, J. W. Zacharie, of the city of New
Orleans, in the State of Lonismana, one of the States of the Confederacy
aforesaid, whose name is signed to the annexed statement in his own
handwriting and who is personally known to the undersigned to be the
said J. W. Zacharie. He, the said J. W. Zacharie, having first duly
sworn, saith upon his oath that the facts contained in the annexed
statement are true, each page of said statement being signed at the
bottom thereof with the initials of the said commissioner in his own
handwritihg, and that the said statement is a copy from the original,
which is to be placed in the hands of her Britannic Majestys consul
in the city of Richmond, Va., F. J. Cridland, esq., to be forwarded by
him to Lord Lyons, her Britannic Majestys minister at the capital of
the United States, at Washington, D. C. Witness my hand and seal
of office at Richmond, Va., the capital of the Confederate States, on
the day and date aforesaid.
	[SEAL.]	WM. F. WATSON,
	Confederate States Commissioner.

Statement of master of British schooner Eugenia Smith relative to seizure of Messrs. Zacharie

and Rogers.

THE STATE OF TEXAS, County of Cameron:

Be it remembered that on this 11th day of the month of December,
A.	D. 1861, personally appeared before me, Henry Lyman Howlett, a
notary public in and for the said county and State, duly commissioned
and sworn, Frederick F. Smith, master of the British schooner called
the Eugenia Smith, of Nassau New Providence
tons, British measurement,	of the burden of 101
who, being duly sworn by me, according to
law, deposes and states on his oath: That he sailed in and with time
said British schooner from Havana, Dominion of Spain, on or abou

Page 238

288	OPflATIOIIS OF THE OBUISflSUNION.
	the 28th asy of November, A. D. 1861, bound to the port of Matamoras,
in Mexico with a cargo of merchandise, consigned to Joseph San
Rome. !!hat nothing occurred to interrupt her said voyage until
Saturday, the 7th day of December, A. D. 1861. That on Saturday, the
7th day of December, A..!). 1861, at about 2 oclock in the afternoon,
when the said schooner was about 4 miles south of the mouth of the
river called the Rio Grande, he was hailed by the U. S. steamship
calledtheilatiauo 4. Cuba, byagun fired by said U. S. steamship.
A boat containing an officer andeight armed men then came onboard of
the said British schooner, which officer demanded my papers ad pas-
sengers, both of which paper and, passengers he took on board said
steamship. While my papers ad passengers were taken on board
said steamship, two more boats came alongside of me with a officer.
ad ned men, ad demanded to know what I had on board. I told
the officer I had two articles, viz, India bagging ad English cotton
goods. Theofficer then ordered my hatches to be opened by his men,
who took out cargo until they could see the bottom of the vessel, cut-
ting open bales of bagging while they were at work. The officer ad
his men then went into my cabin and demanded to be shown the scut-
tie, which they opened by ripping up the oil floor cloth. They then
examined the scuttle and found some small parcels, which they over-
hauled and left in the cabin. About this time the captain of the said
U.S. steamship sent mypapers on board ad ordered meto go on about
my business. The captain of said U. 8.8. Santiago 4. Cuba detained
my passen whom his officer had already taken outof myschooner,
t~ wit: Mr.J.W. Zacharie, of New Orleans, ad a Mn Rogers, of San
Antonio, Ta., who are yet on board the said U. 5.5. Santiago 4. Cuba
as prisoners. Theboarding officer demaded my mail, but I told him
I carried none. The boarding officer left my hatches open, without
offering to secure them in the same condition as they fond them,
although I was out at sea ad in danger of damaging or losing my
vessel ad cargo. The men who came aboard armed with their officers
were not restrained by their officers from stealing, which they freely
did, but to what extent I can not yet form a correct estimate. I was
detaiiied on my voyage for the space of several hours, which put my
vewsel ad cargo at great risk in making my port of destination, dur-
ing all of which period of detention the boarding officer of said U. S.
ste~muhip took charge and kept the vessel so under his charge.
F.	F. SMITH.
	Thus done ad protested at the city of Brownsville, county and
State aforesaid, in the presence of Charles Stiflman ad Cornelius Still-
ma, witnesses.
	In testimony whereof I pant these presents under my signature and
the impress of my notarial seal at my office in the city of Browns-
ville aforesaid, on the day and year first hereinbefore written.
	[suLL.J	.	H. L. HowLETT,.
			NoAr~ Public.
	&#38; n.v, commanding
	&#38; vLi,a.;rcn~nin~wck of prifl.
	U. S. Smr MoRNiNG LIGHT, December 8,1861. -
	Sm:	In obedience to my sealed orders opened at sea on the 2d
instant, I have reached to-day latitude 820 41 N.,longitude 68058 W.,
expecting to pass near the Bermudas to-morrow

Page 239

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	239

	On the 4th instant, sea time, 11 a. in., boarded the British schooner
Emeline, from Martinique for New York, short of provisions; supplied
her with a barrel of beet She reports the privateer Sumter as having
been off Martinique on the 10th of November. She transferred to her
the captain and two men of the schooner Daniel Trowbridge, which she
had taken and destroyed in latitude 170 33 N., longitude 56034 W.
The captain reports that they had been in irons several days, thrcat-
ening them with hanging in case they heard of the Savannahs crew
being linug. He also reports her as having a strong crew, desperate
bind determined. In the afternoon I mustered all hands for general
exercise as in battle, expended 8 rounds of shot and one shell. Made
a short speech to the men, who are full of enthusiasm at the idea of a
crack at the Sumter, shonld she happen to cross our path.
	On the 5th boarded the schooner John C. Daily from New York, bound
to Havana. On the 6th boarded the brig Marine, from Boston to Havana
On the 6th, 8:20 p. in., made out a bark steering apparently W.S.W.;
made all sail in chase; at 10 a. m. overhauled her and bronght her to
with a rocket; she proved to be the bark Izelia, from Pernambuco,
twenty-two days, bound to Philadelphia with a cargo of sngar. The
masters of the last three vessels seemed to be much pleased at the idea
of cruisers being afloat looking after them.
	I report the ships company as being iii good health and spirits, and
rapidly improving in drill of great guns and seamanship.
	With the sincere hope that the next time that I have the honor to
report to you, it may be a dispatch sent in by a prize,
I remain, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
HENRY T. MOORE,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding.
[Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.]



Report of Comvrander LeRoy, commanding U. S. S. Keystone State, of
departure in search af privateers.

U.	S. S. KEYSTONE STATE,
At Sea, December 8, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to report this ship at sea, and shall proceed in
obedience to the sealed orders (when opened) furnished me.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant.
WM. B. LEROY,
0ommander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Order of Flag- Officer Montgomery, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacitic
Squadron, to Commander Watson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. store-
ship Fredonia, regarding suspicious vessel launched in the harbor of
Yalparaiso.
U.	S. FLA SHIP LANCASTER,
Bay of Panama, December 9, 1861.
	SIR: 1 have this moment received your letter with enclosures, of the
18th ultimo, and as the mail leaves in an hour or two I hasten to infor

Page 240

240	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION

you of the departure (yesterday) from this port, of the Wyoming, for
Valparaiso, for the purpose of accompanying you to Callao.
	You will please, sir, to notify Commander McDougal immediately, on
his arrival, of the suspicions you have reason to entertain concerning
the newly launched vessel at Yalparaiso, referred to in your letter; and
should they be well founded, direct him to have a watch upon her prepa-
rations and movements, and capture her upon leaving port. In the
meantime it will be proper to apprise the Government of Chile, through
the consul or minister ~f the United States, of your suspicions, with a
view to timely intervention on its part, to prevent the illegal employ-
ment of said vessel against the commerce and interest of the United
States.
I am, sir, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Flag- Officer, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
	Commander J. M. WATSON,
U.	S. Storeship Fredonia, Valparaiso do Chile.




Order of Secretary of the Navy to Commander Palmer, U. S. Navy, com-
manding U. S. S. Iroquois, to cruise in search of C. S. S. Sumter and
other privateers.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 13, 1861.
	SIR: The Department has received your communication of the 25th
of October and 11th of November last.
	You will continue in pursuit of the Sumter until you succeed in cap-
turing her or learn positively she has been captured or destroyed. You
will then remain in the West indies in search of other privateers and
for the protection of American interests until farther ordered. Although
cruising for the Sumter, you will not omit due vigilance in all cases.
The beliigerents rights of visitation and search you will exercise, avoid-
ing unnecessary offense to neutrals, but detecting and seizing all ves-
sels having arms, munitions, and contraband of war.
I am, respectfully, etc.,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commander J. S. PALMER,	[Secretary of the ATary.]
Commanding U. S. S. iroquois, St. Thomas, West Indies.




Petition of merchants and shipowners of Boston, Mass., to Secretary of
the Navy, urging the need of protection to American commerce in the
Mediterranean.

BOSTON, November 14, 1861.
	SIR: We, the undersigned, merchants and shipowners of Boston,
engaged in trade with the Mediterrammean, respectfully represent that
our interests are materially jeopardized from the fact that no U. S.
man-ofwar is at present in that sea, and urgently request that at
least one Government vessel (even a ganboat) be stationed there for th

Page 241

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
241

protection of our commerce, especially against the danger incurred from
privateers of the Confederate States, which have now every opportunity
of cruising in the Mediterranean unmolested.
JAsIca, GODDARD &#38; Co.
WILLIAM PERKINS.
FRANCIS BACON,
President China Mutual Insurance Company.
	Hon. GIDEON,	[And 14 others.

Secretary of the Navy.

[Endorsement.]

	A steam sloop of war has just been ordered to cross the Atlantic for
the protection of American interests; another will be ordered when
the condition of affairs at home will permit.



Letter from Ellen McCarthy regarding the capture of the ship John Carver

by privateer Jeff. Davis.

PHILADELPHIA, December 14, 1861.
	SIR:	I beg leave to inform you that my husband shipped as a sea-
man from this port about five months since, on board the ship John
Carver, chartered by the Government, with provisions to Key West.
They were captnred by the privateer Jeff. Davis, the men taken pris-
oners and carried to St. Augustine, in Florida. After some time a
part of the crew were sent on to Richm6nd, and were since liberated.
Others remain there still; my husband is among the number. I take
the liberty of writing these particulars to know if there is a prospect
of his being liberated, and when. I hope you will excuse the trouble I
am giving you and make an allowance for the anxiety of a wife and
mother, who are naturally anxious to have him restored to them and his
helpless young family. Please answer this as soon as convenient. I
also wish to know if the Government has made any provision for the
wives and children of persons so situated, as no one needs it more than
I do at present.
	I enclose you the certificate of the shipping master to satisfy you
that my statement is correct. Please direct to 813 South Eighth street,
below Catherine.
I remain, yours, very respectfully,
			ELLEN MCCARTHY.
[SECRETARY OF WAR.]

	This is to certify that I shipped a man by the name of John McCarty
in the ship John Carver that left in July last and was destroyed at sea
by the privateer Jeff. Davis.
THOS. MCGUIRE,

PHILADELPHIA, December 9, 1861.	Shipping Master.
[Endorsement.]

IRespectfully referred to the Secretary of the Navy.
		S.	CAMERON,
	DECEMBER 17, 1861.		 Secretary of War,
123AIA

Page 242

242	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Prailey, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Quaker City, to proceed to sea under sealed-orders.

NAVY DEPART~ ENT, December 14, iSGi.
	SIR: The order to you of the 4th instant to report at Hampton Roads
is hereby revoked.
	Transmitted herewith are sealed instructions addressed to you, to be
opened when the Quaker City gets to sea. Commander IDe Camp will
present himself for passage in the Quaker City, and you will take your
departure i rum ediately thereafter.
I am, respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
~Secretary of the Navy.]
	Commander J. M. FRAILEY,
Commanding U. S. S. Quaker City, New York.

[Euclosure.1

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 14, 1861.
	SIR: Proceed with the U. S. S. Quaker City, under your command,
to the West indies, iu search of the rebel steamer Sumter. You will
pursue that vessel with all diligence until you overhaul and capture
her or learn positively that she has been captured or destroyed.
Although your chief object will be the pursuit of the Sumter, you will
not omit due vigilance in all cases. The belligerent right of visitation
and search you will exercise, avoiding un. ecessary offense to neutrals,
but detecting and seizing all vessels which you have reason to suppose
are transporting arms, munitio~s, and contraband of war to the insur-
gents.
	Commander John IDe Camp goes out as a passenger in the Quaker
City, to relieve Commander Palmer of the command of the Iroquois.
The Iroquois may probably be found at St. Thomas, or you may learn
of her movements from the U. S. consul there. The Iroquois and
Quaker City till be independent of each other, but Commander
IDe Camp and yourself will act in concert, so as to insure a thorough
search for the Sumter, and to avoid cruising in close proximity or follow-
ing in the same track unless advisable.
	Communicate with the Department when opportunity offers and
transmit a statement of vessels boarded and spoken, with the usual
remarks in information in such cases.
I am, respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
Commander JAMES M. FRAILEY
Commanding U. S. S. Quaker City, New York.



Instructions from the Secretary of the Navy to Commander John De Camp,
U. S. avy, appointed to command U. S. S. Iroquois, to relieve Coin-
inander Palmer and proceed in search of C. S. S. Sumter, etc.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 14, 1861.
	SIR: On relieving Commander Palmer of the command of the IJ. S.
steam sloop Iroquois, in pursuance of the order to you of this date, you
will proceed with that vessel in search of the rebel steamer Sumter

Page 243

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	243

You will pursue the Sumter ~ith all diligence until you overhaul and
capture her or learn positively that she has been captured or destroyed.
	Although your chief object will be the pursuit of the Sumter, you will
not omit due vigilance in all cases. The belligerent right of visitation
and search you will exercise, avoiding unnecessary offense to neutrals,
but detecting and seizing all vessels which you have reason to suppose
are transporting arms, munitions, and contrabrand of war to the insur-
gents.
	The Iroquois may probably be found at St. Thomas, or you may learn
something of her movements from the U. S. consul there. Commander
Frailey will consult your wishes with regard to finding the Iroquois.
	The Iroquois [and Quaker City] will be independent of each other, but
Commander Frailey and yourself will act in concert so as to insure a
thorough search for the Sumter, and to avoid cruising in close proxim-
ity or following in the same track, unless advisable.
	Communicate with the Department when opportunity offers and
transmit a statement of vessels boarded and spoken, with the usual
remarks and information in such cases. Remain in the West Indies
until further orders. I enclose instructions, to be opened when the
Quaker City gets to sea.
I am, respectfully, etc.,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commander JOHN DE CAMP,	[Secretary of the Navy.]
Appointed to command U. S. S. Iroquois.




Report of Commander Le Roy, U. S. Kavy, commanding U. S. S. Keystone
State, of arrival off Bermuda.

U.	S. S. KEYSTONE STATE
Off Bermuda, Sunday, 11 a. in., December 15, 1861.
	SIR: I have to report I have this moment dropped anchor, to com-
municate with the consul before proceeding to the usual man-of-war
anchorage. All well. Passage stormy.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. E. LE Roy,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy, Washington, D. C.




Report of Lieutenant Temple, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Plambean,
of arrival at Nassau, New Providence, from New York, with circum-
stances attendtng crutse.

U.	S. S. FLAMBEAU,
Nassau, New Providence, December 15, 1861.
	SIR: I have to report our arrival at this port on the morning of the
11th, having left INew York on the 6th. On the first night out the fee

Page 244

244	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

pipe to the port boiler gave way, and on the morning of the 8th the one
belonging to the starboard boiler also became aseless. The boilers had
then to be fed by the donkey engine with cold sea water to supply the
place of the steam expended, instead of with hot fresh water from the
condenser, thus impairing the economy of our consnn~ption of coal.
These feed pipes onght to be replaced by others of heavier metal, but
they can not be even repaired at this place. The engineers, however,
have mended them so that it is possible they may serve our purpose
temporarily, in the meantime the usefulness of the vessel is not mate-
rially affected by it, and she is now ready for sea at a moments notice.
Nothing else of interest occurred during the passage until the morning
of the 10th, when, being in latitude 270 55 N. and longitude 740 55/
W., it was reported to me at daylight that a brig was in sight to the
westward of us, apparently standing to the southward of west, with
studding sails set. I ordered chase to be made, and after three hours
overhauled her. She proved to be the Queem of the West, in ballast, from
Puerto Rico, bound to Halifax, where she belongs. Although it had
become evident sometime before reaching her that she was close hauled
and standing to the N. W., yet I thought the circumstances of her first
appearance, together with her lowvhty, to be sufficiently suspicious to
warrant me in heaving her to and sending an officer on board to exam-
ine her papers.
	Everything proved to be correct, however. The matter of having the
studding sails set was denied and her position was accounted for on
the score of het having experienced a three days gale from the north-
ward, during which she had been obliged to lay to. I have since had
reason to know that such was the case. In all, her detention amounted
to only forty minutes, and she was not required to deviate from her
course. My formal visits to the authorities have been courteously
received, but it is evident from trifles, which I will not enumerate, that
all their sympathies are with the rebels. Indeed, this is the tone of feel-
ing~mong ad classes here, and the common people barely fall short of
downright insolence to our officers in the streets. Our presence is an
evident source of embarrassment and distress to very muany. The lieu-
tenant-governor had already, before our arrival, forbidden the consul
to land the coal sent out for the use of this vessel, except upon the
express stipulation that it shall not be supplied to any United States
vessel during our present difficulties, on the ground that it would con-
stitute a breach of the neutrality enjoined by the Queens proclamation,
and a further correspondence siimce we came in ha~ failed to convince
hini of error in this matter. I know of no means of evading this diffi-
culty except by disregarding the decision of the lieutenant-governor,
and towing one of the small coal schooners to some small harbor where
the coal can be transferred, but as we have about 100 tons yet remain-
ing on board, it will not probably be necessary to resort to such meas-
nrc before I can receive instructions from the Department.
	H.	B. N. steaum gunboat AS~teady, the only man-of-war here at the
time of our arrival, went to sea on the evening of the 11th, and the
Nimble, another vessel of the same class, arrived on the morning of the
13th, and left again after a few hours stay.
Respectfully,

WM. G. TEMPLE,
Lieutenant, Commandin~j.

Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Yavy

Page 245

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	245

report of Lieutenant Temple, U~ S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Elambectu,
of British steamer Gladiator and other blockade runners at Nassau,
New Proridence.

U.	S. S. FLAMBEAU,
Nassau, New Providence, December 15, 1861.
	Sin: I have to report that on our arrival at this place on the morn-
ing of the 11th there were in port, among other vessels, the rebel
steamers Theodora (formerly the Gordon) and the Ella Warley (for-
merly the lisabel). They had run the blockade, bringing cargoes of
cottou which have been discharged here; but it is said that the Theodora
has again brought away some diplomatic emissary of the Confederates,
and is flow purchasing flannel and other articles for a return cargo.
Her 75 bales would seem an insufficient inducement to have brought
her out. These two steamers are commanded by brothers named Lock-
wood.
	The British steamer Gladiator, loaded with arms for the rebels, is also
in this port. I am satisfied that it was her intention to have gone to
sea on the night of the 12th, and by an apparent complicity of the
authorities, particularly the man who is pilot and harbor master here,
her chance of doing so without our being- able to follow her immedi-
ately seemed good at one time. But I extricated the Plambean from
her cramped position and shifted onr berth at midnight; and as we
keep banked fires under the boilers constantly, I can now follow her
out at any moment without a pilot, if necessary. I have, how ever,
engaged a pilot at 3 English shillings per diem, one who can be thor-
oughly relied upon, I think, for capacity and fidelity. There were also
present on our arrival a brig and schooner loaded with salt, both of
which are said to have run the blockade frequently and to intend doing
so again; and another schooner arrived to-day from Charleston. The
clipper ship Eliza Ilonsall, formerly of Boston but now of Liverpool,
arrived at the same time with ourselves, and although there are rumors
to the contrary I am disposed to believe that she has come for cotton, in
hopes that a sufficient quantity might have already been brought over
from the Southern States. If this is the case, however, the supply is
as yet insufficient to load her. It is not unlikely from present appear-
ances that the Theodora or perhaps some of the less valuable vessels may
endeavor to lead us away from the port in chase so that the Gladiator
may have the opportunity to escape, but I shall only fall into this trap
in case the circumstances at the time should promise a chance of turn-
ing it to our advantage, as I Icemn it of paramount importance to pre-
vent these arms from reaching the rebels.
	It is rumored that there are two United States vessels cruising in the
channels between this and the Hole in the Wall, and it may be that
they are the Santiago de Cuba and the Dc Soto, but on the whole I doubt
the entire story.
	I have made this early reportleaving so much incompletelest we
should be obliged to leave suddenly. In case of detention I will report
further.
Respectfully,
WM. G. TEMPLE
Lieutenant
,	Commanding.

Hon. G-WEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy

Page 246

246	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from Samuel Whiting, esq., U. S. consul at Nassau, New Provi-
dence, to Secretary of the Navy, relative to the landing of coal at that port.

U.	S. CONSULATE AT NASSAU, NEW PROVIDENCE,
December 16, 1861.
	SIR:	1 have the honor to inform you that the coal which has arrived
here by the schooners Caleb Stetson and B. W. Perry, consigned
to my care by the U. S. Navy agent at Philadelphia, was being landed
on the 10th December, when a dispatch was received by me from the
colonial anthorities forbidding the landing of the same, save on the
condition that the said coal should not be resbipped or transshipped
on board any United States war vessel during the continuance of the
struggles now going on in America.
	I therefore ordered the schooners off to anchor and wrote at once to
the Department of State for instructions in the matter. The U. S. S.
Piambean, Temple, commander, arrived here on the 11th instant, and
thongh she did not actually need coal, I requested permission from the
government of the Bahamas to pnt sufficient coal on board of her to
lighten the schooner Caleb Stetson, which was leaking badly. My
reqnest was accompanied by the certificate of the captain of the Caleb
Stetson to this effect. The request was courteously refused.
	I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SAML. WHITINt,
U.	S~ Consul.
Honorable SECRETARY OF THE NAvy,
Washington, D. C.

[Endorsement.]

	The coal can be sent to Key West or to Port Royal, as the master of
the vessel may prefer, if there is any way of getting information to the
consul.
J.	L.


Report of Commander ]LfcKinstry, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Dacotah, of cruise from Honykong, China, to New York.

U.	S. S. DACOTAH,
New York, November rDecemberj 16, 1861.
	SIR:	In obedience to the orders of Flag-Officer Frederick Engle,
commanding the East Indian Sqnadron, copies* of which, marked 1, 2,
and 3, are enclosed, the Dacotah left iongkong on the 6th August and
proceeded to Batavia, arriving there on the 17th, the distance having
been steamed against a light southerly monsoon and smooth sea. On
the 27th a telegram arrived from Anjer Point stating that the flagship
Hartford was at that anchorage awaiting the Dacotah. On the 28th I
I)roceeded to that point and joined the flagship, and on the morning of
the 30th the two ships left the Strait of Sunda.
	The Dacotah arrived at Cape Town on the 4th October, where, after
having filled np with coal, I left on the 9th and reached St. Thomas on
the 19th November, with the boilers of time ship in a greatly imnpaired
condition. On the afternoon of the 23d of November, having coaled
and being ready to leave for the United States, the American schooner

OmitPnl

Page 247

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	247

B.	J. Tctlbot came in, stating that she had been chartered at St. Pierre
to take coal and provisions to the U. S. S. Iroquois, then watching the
Sumter at that port. The U. S. consul at St. Thomas having loaded
the schooner with great (lisl)atch, I left that port at 11 p. m. with her in
tow for St. Pierre. On the 24th instant I was induced to run oft my
course in chase of a man-of-war bark, in appearance resembling the
Sumter, and spoke her after firing a blank cartridge to windward.
She proved to be H. B. M. Terror.
	On the morning of the 26th I was oft St. Pierre, and on communicat-
ing with the town found that the Sumter left at 8 p. in. on the 23d
instant, closely pursued by the Iroquois. The contradictory reports
relative to the route of the Sumter left me in doubt respecting the
course she had taken. The only conclusion I could arrive at was that
she had gone north, and would be likely to make a French port in
preference to any other. The next morning I reached I3asse Terre and
in the evening Pointe it Pitre, Guadeloupe, but could gain no intelli-
gence respecting her. The following (lay, after examining the passage
between Guadeloupe and Dominica, I stopped again at Basse Terre
and the next day at St. Enstatius and St. Barthlomew, without obtain-
ing any trace of her.
	The state of the boilers and the limited quantity of provisions on
board made it requisite for the ship to return to the United States in
compliance with orders. After obtaining a supply of coal at St.
Thomas, I left that port on the 2d December and arrived here this
evening.
	The U. S. S. Macedonian, Iroquois, and Shepherd Knapp were at St.
Thomas, the Macedonian to sail on the 2d instant.
I am, sir, with great respect, your obedient servant,
J.	P. MOKINSTRY,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Report of Commander LeRoy, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Keystone
State, of arrival at Bahama Islands, with account of cruise.

U.	S. S. KEYSTONE STATE,
AT ANCHOR OFF HAMiLTON, NAVAL ANCHORAGE,
Islands of Bermuda, December 16, 1861.
	SIR: I anchored in Murray Bay yesterday a little after 11 a. in., and
at once proceeded on shore to communicate with onr consul, learning
nothing of any importance to the public interests. After returning on
board I shifted my anchorage to the present spot, as being less exposed,
the pilot not thinking it safe to attempt taking so large or long a ship
as this iiito the harbor of St. George, where the consul resides. This
morning I expect, the weather permitting, to pay my official respects
to his Excellency the governor and Vice-Admiral Sir A. lVIilne, whose
flagship, the Nile, is near me. ly passage to these islands has been
exceedingly rough, and was delayed somewhat to enable me to exer-
cise my crew at the guns.
	I much regret the Department shonld have deemed it proper to direct
the sailing of this vessel without giving me the services of a lieutenant,
particularly at a moment like this, when experience in naval matters
is so requisite in the executive officer. I am fortunate in having th

Page 248

248	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

services of three excellent masters, iritelli gent, zealous, and efficient
seamen, who have shown every desire to second me cheerfully, but have
had no experience iu exercising guns. I trust the iDepartment will see
the propriety of ordering a lieutenant to this vessel.
	J availed myself yesterday of a few moments to advise the Depart-
ment, by a vessel that was nuder way, of the safe arrival of the Key-
stone State.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
Wi~i. E. LEROY,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary [of the] Navy, Washington, D. C.

	Several vessels were boarded on the passage, among them the French
merchant bark Suerde, of and for Marseilles, thirty-one days from Cam-
peche. I furnished her with two sacks of coal, her captain fearing his
supply of fuel would not hold out.
Ycry respectfully,
W~u. E. LEROY,
Commander.


Report of Lieutenant Temple, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Flambean,
of the presence of blockade runners Iheodora and Gladiator at Nassau,
New Providence.
U.	S. S. FLJUWBEAU~
Nassau, New Providence, December 17, 1861.
	SIR: As I anticipated when writing my last, an attempt was made
last night in the niidwatch to lead this vessel away in chase of the
Theodora. Care had been taken that I should hear rumors of her
intention to leave, and also an exaggerated estimate of the value of hw
cargo. She went off to the eastward by a channel where it was impos-
sible for us to follow, expecting us, no doubt, to go out by the ordinary
way; but she is at anchor some 5 miles away, and the top of her smoke-
stack is in sight this morning from our masthead, and besides this, all
or nearly all of her crew left her as she was getting under way. The
Theodora was the only vessel in port that hoisted the rebel flag on Sun-
day, as the Ella Warley and some small craft that have hitherto shown
these colors came out with the English flag on that day. I supposed
this to be a part of the plan to entice me away, and having reason also
to believe that the story of her return cargo is a pure fiction, I shall let
her go, if she chooses, more particularly as she burns soft coal, and so
will find it more difficult to elude the vigilance of the blockading squad-
ron. I had thought of acting otherwise; but if I were to follow and
capture this decoy vessel, the authorities would doubtless on my return
order me to sea as having made an improper use of their port, and so
the Gladiator would get the desired opportunity for escape.
	I am aware that I have no right to make use of a neutral port to
watch my enemies and follow them out, an(l that such a course would
vitiate their capture; but I have been lying here for the purpose of
repairing the damage to our feed pipes, and am now engaged in setting
up the rigging, which needs it very much; in addition to which I have
reason to hope that the authorities will recede from their prohibition to
coal the ship at this port, and the watching and determination to follow
and capture the Gladiator is only incidental to my being here for othe

Page 249

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	249

purposes. I hope the consuls dispatches to the commanding officer at
Key West and to Consul-General Shufeldt will SOOII bring another
vessel to my assistance, for I am sorry to say that the condition of my
health impairs my mental and physical energy to a great degree. I
neglected to mention in my previous letter that when I shifted my berth
at midnight of the 12th and 1.3th, the authorities, imagining that it was
my iutention to cut out the Gladiator and tow her to sea, manned the
battery, shotted their guns, and stood prepared to fire upon us. I have
only to add that the II. B. M. S. Bull Dog arrived from Havana yester-
day morning. She keeps banked fires as well as ourselves, and I am
confident that, as Commodore IDunlop dispatched her immediately on
the arrival of the AS1tecfdy, she is ordered to watch this vessel and will
probably interfere with our proceedings. She carries 4 heavy 32-
ponnders, 1 pivot 68-pounder aft, and an Armstrong gun of 100 pounds
caliber on the forecastle. I find her presence rather inconvenient, more
especially as her commander is quite a clever man and well read in
international law, besides being more dexterous than anyone I have
met in guarding his conversation.
Respectfully,
	WM. G. TEMPLE,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Lieutenant, Comma ding.
Secretary of the Navy.
	DECEMBER 19, 1861.

The Theodora has gone to sea, as also British schooner Prince of
Wales, loaded with salt for some Southern port.
	W. G. T.



[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 17, 1861.
	Direct Commander Craven, of the Tuscarora, to visit the Azores
Islands on his way to England.
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commodore H. PAULDINO~	Secretary Navy.
Commandant Navy Yard, New York.



Report of 6~ommander Prailey, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Quaker
City, of departure for sect in obedience to orders.

[U. S. S. QUAKER CITY,]
Off Ellis Island, New York Bay, December 18, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the 14th instant, directing me to proceed to sea after the arrival of
Commander De Camp, and respectfully inform you that I left the navy
yard on the 17th instant at 3 oclock, l)roceeding to Ellis Island to take
in powder, which having been accomplished, I immediately proceeded
seaward and shall in a few moments discharge the pilot.
	Your secret instructions will be faithfully carried out. I regret tha

Page 250

250	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

no change could be effected in the list of acting masters as first ordered,
as in that respect, as I previously reported, the ship can not be said
to be efficient.
I am, sir, very respectfully,
JAS. MADISON FRAILEY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Captain Glynn, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Mac-
edonian, of cruise from Aspinwali, New Grenada, to the West India
Islands.

111.	S. SHIP MACEDONIAN,
At Sea, December 19, 1861.
	SIR: Agreeably to your order of September 4,11 sailed from Aspin-
wall on the 5th of October, and beat up to the eastward on the coast
of New Granada and oi Venezuela against the prevailing wind and
current till we reached La Guayra, on the 26th; those most familiar
with the navigation of our track expressing a good deal of surprise at
the success of what seems to be a rather unusual experiment, and
which was, without doubt, owing to our beating very near iu shore all
the way, a course not often ventured upon by so large a ship.
	The crew having become impatient to get liberty on shore, it was
granted to them at La Guayra, in consideration of no more preferable
opportunity having offered itself since the ship had sailed from Ports-
mouth, N.H.
	On the 2d of November we sailed from La Guayra, and returned
again on the 5th, with the hope of recovering, through-the agency of
the police during our absence, two deserters that it was anticipated
would come out from their hiding places when the ship was known to
have left the anchorage, but they probably found too many sympa-
thizers on shore and eluded detection.
	We sailed finally on the same day, and continued to beat to the east-
ward, as far as the island of Margarita, when on standing to the north-
ward with the view of going outside, we found a lee current so strong
as to make it necessary to try the passage between the islands and the
main, or to abandon the idea of getting any further to the eastward.
It proved to be more intricate and difficult of navigation than was
anticipated, and not very well surveyed, in consequence of which the
ship, before we got through, was on shore twice and touched in stays
on another occasion, but probably sustained no injury in consequence.
	It was my intention when I left Aspin wall to go to Trinidad (Port
Spain), and there to fill up my water, then to run through the islands
to the northward as far as St. Thomas, and from thence go to execute
fully your order to cruise in the Mona Passage. In the execution of
this design we had reached within 50 Iniles of the island of Trinidad
(or of Bocas de IDragos) [Dragons Mouthj, when we found the current
so strong against ns that we gained but 12 miles in four days, and
actually lost ground during the preceding forty-eight hours. No bet-
ter prospect appearing in view, it became necessary to abandon the
idea of reaching Port Spain and to seek for water at some more acces-
sible place. All things considered, St. Thomas appeared the most
convenienI~ and most certain from where we then were, and on the 21s

Page 251

OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.	251

of November we quit the coast of the Spanish Main, forty-six days
after sailing from Aspinwall. We arrived at St. Thomas the 27th
November, after having been on short allowance of water in conse-
quence of many of the tanks having been salted from the pickle out of
old and leaky provision barrels.
	We met with nothing suspicious ou the coast, and yet it seemed a
very desirable region for cruisers against the commerce of the United
States to appoint as their rendezvous arid to receive snpplies. At the
Margarita Islands, in particular, any desired h~cilities might be secured;
for although the Government officials express an interest in our Fed-
eral cause, yet it is a notorious fact that the people generally take the
other side of the question, and that seems to be the case all through
the West Indies.
	With this strong protecting interest in their favor, the wonder is
that more cruisers have not been commissioned before now against the
flag of the Union.
	Knowing that this feeling does so generally exist, it becomes my
duty to recommend that a Government cruiser should be made to pass
around the Caribbean Sea as often as may be, with a view to deter
from any attempt of the kind. No litttle surprise has been expressed
wherever we have been that the United States should be carrying on
such extensive naval and military operations at home and yet be able
to send their cruisers so far away in pursuit of their enemies. It con-
veys a strong and a useful impression of the power of the Union.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAMES 0-LYNN, Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy.



Letter from Commander lilcKinstry, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Dacotah, to Assistant Secretary of the Navy, refuting unjust criticisms
of Commander Palmer, U. S. Navy.

[Private.]

U.	S. S. DACOTAH,
North River, December 19, 1861.
	DEAR SIR: My report to the Department, forwarded by Commodore
Paulding, was written in haste on the evening of my arrival, and my
object in addressing you this private note is that justice may be done
Commander Palmer, whom the papers are denouncing in an unjust
manner, Ithink.
	On the 19th November I arrived at St. Thomas (the first time), aud on
the 23d, p. in., having coaled and being about to leave for Boston, the
American schooner - B. J. Talbot arrived, stating that she had been
chartered by the Iroquois at St. Pierre, Martinique, to take coal and
provisions to her (the Iroquois), then watching time Sumter at that port.
With dispatch the stores were placed on board the schooner, and 11
p. m. of that night the Dacotah stood out of the harbor with the schooner
in tow. The next day I was led off my course to chase a bark, in
appearance not unlike the Sumter. After firing a blank cartridge to
windward she was overtaken, and proved to be II. B. M. bark Terror.
	Ou the 24th, having towed the schooner there, I communicated with
St. Pierre and learned that the Sumter had escaped at 8 p. in. on the
23d

Page 252

252	OPERATIONS OF TilE CRUISERSUNION.

	From the contradictory reports I could glean no satisfactory informa-
tion respecting her route, and came to the COnclllSiOll that, if pursued,
she would make for a French port in preference to any other. My
slight intercourse with the French officials showed their sympathy to
be with her.
	Leaving St. Pierre that p. in., the next morning I was at Basse Terre,
and in the afternoon at Pointe ~ Pitre, and next day, after examining
the passage between Dominica and Gaudeloupe, called again at Basse
Terre. My object in making this second call at that port was to learn
what news the English mail steamer from the islands south might have
brou~ht the previous night. Not the slightest intelligence could be
obtained of the Sumter. The next day I called at St. Eustatius and
St. Bartholomew, the governor of the latter island assuring me that the
Sumter would uot be permitted to enter his ports.
	The state of the boilers of this ship and the limited supply of pro-
visions made it imperative for me to return to St. Thomas for coal, and
return for repairs to the United States.
	The above facts are hastily given you, that Commander Palmer, who
could not have known of the Dacotah being at St. Thomas, may be
properly represented to the Department. The many denunciations in
the papers, in my opinion, are unjust.
	The Iroquois arrived at St. Thomas the evening previous to my leav-
ing, and I saw Commander Palmer, in the presence of others, without
learning from him anything respecting his movements, and I have hur-
riedly written this to explain my departure from the orders to return
home. It was time for this ship to return, aside from the repairs required
on her boilers. A great portion of the ships conipany are from the
wrong side of Mason and Dixons hue, and they should be changed.
	Having taken 100 tons of coal yesterday, I decided upon going
through the sound. Now, 9:30 a. in., there is a dense fog and the pilot
declines taking the ship through the gate. If the weather should
prove foggy to-morrow, I shall proceed to sea by the Hook. I am
much aunoyed by this days detention.
	The Dacotah, when in order, will, I think, prove as efficient and as
fast as any steamer of her class.
	Excuse this hasty epistle. Without being, or assuming to be, the
apologist of Commander Palmer, I would wish, as I know you would,
that justice should be done him in his absence. Dissatisfied, grum-
bling subordinates niay so color a commanders conduct as to destroy
his character and prospects.
In haste, very truly yours,
J. P. MOKINSTRY,
[Commander, U. S. Navy.]
	Captain CT. V. Fox,
Acting Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Lieutenant Temple, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Flambeau,
transmitting correspondence with colonial authorities at Nassau, New
Providence, relative to coal.
U.	S. S. FLAMBEAU,
Nassau, New Providence, December 19, 1861.
	Sin: I enclose herewith copies of a correspondence I have had with
the colonial authorities on the subject of gettiiig coal on board here.
I was induced to write the first letter by information that orders ha

Page 253

OPERATIONS OP THE eRUISERSUNION.	253

been received from the home Government to let us have coal; but there
seems to be some mistake about it.
	The consuls dispatches failed to reach Key West, whether from act-
ual fear on the part of the black captain to cross the Gulf Stream, as
alleged, or from secret instructions given him before starting, I am
unable to say. The vessel returned last night, and now the consul is
about to send one of the coal schooners to Key West. I therefore take
this opportunity to send duplicates of my dispatches, lest when the
Karnak is about to sail the post-office authorities should refuse to take
them.
Respectfully,
	WM. G. TEMPLE,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Lieutenant, Commanding.
AS~ecretary of the Navy.
[Enclosures.]
U.	S. S. FLAMBEAU,
Nas8au, New Providence, December 17, 1861.
	SIR: Having applied to the U. S. consul at this place to get a sup.
ply of coal for the vessel nuder my command, a correspondence between
your Government and the consul was read to me, in which he was denied
permission to procure such supplies at this port, during the existence
of the present difficulties between the Government of the United States
and the rebel States, on the ground that such permission would be an
infraction of the neutrality prescribed by her Majestys proclamation
of the 14th May last.
	Without entering into the question of what constituted contraband
of war, either under the recognized principles of international law or
under the treaty of 1794, between the United States and Great Britain,
or under the British orders in council of the 18th of February, 1854,
and the 24th of April following, and without citing the writings of
Ortolan and Hautefenilleall of which clearly show that coal can never,
under any circumstances, become contrabandI would beg leave to
suggest for your Excellencys consideration the faet that the motive
power of this vessel is almost exclusively steam; and since it is impos-
sible to carry a perpetual supply of coal on board, a prohibition to
obtain more would amount to detaining her in port during the war, and so
far from preserving the neutrality enjoined, it would really be affording
aid to the rebels. That this is the view taken by her Majestys Gov-
ernment in England would seem evident from the notorious fact that
both the U. S. S. James Adger and the rebel steamer Nashville obtained
supplies of all sorts at Southampton, among which coal must necessa-
rily (from their construction) have entered; and it is perhaps due to the
peculiar construction of the steam vessels employed in the present con-
test that any doubts which may have existed on this point hitherto
have been thus readily set aside. I am sorry to write thus loosely, and
chiefly from memory and newspapers, on such a subject, but the con-
clusion that this prohibition would be actually taking part against us
has seemed so obvious to me that I have trusted to your indulgence in
so doing, and I would only add that it has been done in all friendliness
of feeling towards your Excellency and Government.
	With the highest consideration and respect, I remain, your Excel-
lencys most obedient servant,
WM. GRENYILLE TEMPLE,
Lieutenant Commanding, U. iSv. Navy.
	His Excellency Lieutenant-Governor TES~ITT

Page 254

254	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

BAHAMAS COLONIAL SECRETA1~YS OFFICE,
Nassau, December 18, 1861.
	SIR: I am directed by the lieutenant-governor to acknowledge the
receipt of your letter of yesterdays date, having reference to a recent
correspondence between the Government and the consul of the United
States, which was read to you on your application to him for a supply
of coal for the vessel under your command, in which he was denied
permission to procure such supplies at this port, during the existence
of the present difficulties between the Government of the United States
and the rebel States, on the ground that such permission would be an
infraction of the neutrality prescribed by Her Majestys proclamation
of the 14th of May last.
	Without entering into the question of what constitutes contraband
of war, you proceed to urge certain reasons in opposition to the view
of coal being contraband, and allege that a prohibition to obtain a
supply of coal for the steamer under your command would amount
to detaining her in port during the war, and, so far from preserving the
neutrality enjoined, it would be really affording aid to the rebels.
	You likewise cite the cases of the U. S. S. James Adger and the Con-
federate steamer Nashville, and refer to the different treatment they
received at Southampton.
	Having given the matter full consideration, the lieutenant-governor
is advised that there is nothing in your letter to alter the view of the
case already communicated to your consul.
	English authorities of unquestionable weight and character show
that coal and other articles ancipitis usus become under circum-
stances contraband of war; but the real question here is not whether
coal is or is not contraband of war. but whether the United States
armed vessels are to make this a coaling depot, for the better facili-
tating their belligerent oper tions against vessels of the Confederate
States, lawfully resorting here for the purposes of trade. The cases of
the James A ger and the Nashville are not parallel cases to that of the
Plani beau. In those cases, the vessels were some thousands of miles
distant from the United States, and coal was to them an article of real
necessity. In your case the Flambeau is within a very short distance
of the ports of her own nationKey West, for instancewhere all her
necessities could readily be supplied.
	The obtaining coal here, therefore, can only be with the object of
enabling her to continue what it is in fact, to a certain extent, a blockade
of this port, and no facilities can under these circumstances be afforded
her for carrying out this object, by any action of the local government,
without the express sanction of her Majestys Government for the pur-
pose being first obtained.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
A. J. THOMPSON,
Acting Colonial Secretary.
Lieutenant W. G. TEMPLE,
Commanding U. S. S. Flambeau.


U.	S. S. FLAMBEAU,
Harbor of Nassau, December 19, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communi-
cation of yesterdays date, in reply to mine of the day previous, relative
to my obtaining a supply of coal for this vessel

Page 255

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	255

	I have nothing further to present on this question, and shall leave it
to my Government to obtain the express sanction of her Majestys
Government, which you propose; but, in the course of your remarks,
you say the obtaining coal here, therefore, can only be with the object
of enabling her [the Flambean] to continue what it is in fact, to a
certain extent, a blockade of this port, etc.
	I must protest against such a construction being placed upon my
presence in this port, and would assure the authorities here that, in
the instructions from my Government,Jam strictly enjoined to respect
the rights of neutrals, among whom, I trust, Great Britain may remain
classed during the continuance of this contest.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
WM. GRENVILLE TEMPLE,
Lieutenant Commanding, U. S. Navy.
Hon. A. J. THOMPSON,
Acting Colonial Secretary of the Bahamas.



Report of Lieutenant Temple, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Flambean,
relative to blockade runner aladiator at Nassau, New Providence.


lIT. S. S. FLAMBEAU,
Nassau, New Providence, December 21, 18G1.
	SIR: Since my last date the steamer Ella Warley (formerly the
Isabel), which was under the rebel flag until our arrival but has since
taken out English papers, has coaled ship, and this morning went out-
side. I had previous information, however, that she was to go along-
side the Eliza Bonsall, clipper ship, and take out of her a cargo of
salt. I should not, therefore, have followed her, even if I had not
already decided npon a different policy; and she has just returned
again, and is fast to the ship. I am anxious to get the approval of the
IDepartment to my decision to remain and watch the Gladiator, even if
it should allow all these other vessels to pass out under my nose. It is
very annoying to me to do so; but as the main object is to prevent arms
from reaching the rebels, as the Gladiator is reported to have arms and
equipments for 25,000 men, as the military efliciency of the rebels
would not be materially increased, even by the success of the Theodora
and Isabel, in running the blockade, and as their chance of so doing is
so small, now that they are burning soft coal, I have thought it clearly
my duty not to hazard being ordered away from this post for any less
reason than the capture of the Gladiator. It has already been under
discussion in council to order me off anyhow. If that were to occur, and
I were obliged to watch outside for her, my supply of coal would not
last a week, and she would soon be able to slip away. I can hardly
think the Department would justify me in taking the remaining coal
schooner to some harbor in the vicinity, and in the face of the governors
prohibition, filling up the bunkers from her. If on the contrary, I
remain here, she can neither elude inc nor transship her arms, for 1 am
within about 100 yards of her, and the coal on hand will llow me to
keep banked fires for a month longer, and still have enough to reach
Key West. The Gladiator, however (and indeed everybody on shore),
is of opinion that we can not hold out many days longer. Of course
I do not undeceive them, and they have moored head and stern, waiting
for our departure. Meantime these other vessels seem to hay guesse

Page 256

256	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

my intention of allowing them to get to sea if they choose, and are
making the most of it, except the brig loaded with salt, which is with-
drawn from the trade altogether.
	If the Santiago de Cuba left Havana on the arrival of the Karnak it
is possible that these vessels may be captnred before getting into the
open ocean; but I have no intelligence of her, except that she was coal-
ing there when the Bull Dog aad Steady left, five or six days ago. I
find that there are not over 70 tons of coal in the ship at present.
	iRespectfully,	N~. G. TEMPLE,
	Lieutenant, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Order from Flag-Officer Du Pont, U. S. Navy, commanding South Atlan-
tic Blockading Squadron, to Commander Ridgely, commanding Santi-
ago de Cuba, to proceed to Nassau, New Providence, in search of blockade
runner Gladiator.
	FLAGSHIP WABASH,
Port Royal Harbor, S. C., December 21, 1861.
	SIR: Please receive my thanks for the prompt manner in which you
have repaired to this port and furnished me with the important infor-
mation contained in a dispatch to you from Consul-General Shufeldt at
The Havannah.
	In reference to its subject-matter, I deem the interests of the public
service will be best subserved by your early departure for Nassau.
You will therefore proceed with the Santiago de Cuba under your com-
mand to that port, and after receiving from Lieutenant Commanding
Temple, of the Flambean, all the information he may have to impart to
you, you will communicate with the U. S. consul at Nassau, and get, in
an official form, all the facts touching the subject-matter of the consul-
generals dispatch.
	You will perceive by the enclosed letters and extracts from the con-
sulate in London that the Gladiator has been purchased by the rebels
and the vessel and cargo are rebel property, notwithstanding her
English papers. She would be, therefore, according to British rule and
practice, open to capture 1 marine league from any British possession;
but she is loaded with contraband of war for the rebel States, and you
will make prize of her for this and send her to New York, to be libeled.
You will likewise inform Lieutenant Commanding Temple of this fact,
and direct himn to make a prize of the Gladiator under the above-men-
tioned circumstances.
	Notwithstanding the most unfriendly and indefensible procedure on
the part of the authorities at Nassau, as set forth in Consul-General
Shufeldts letter to you, you will observe the utmost forbearance amid
discretion in all your intercourse with those authorities. At the same
time I rely with entire confidence upomi your firmness and judgment to
sustain our rights as a nation and as belligerents upon the ocean
wherever any unauthorized attempts may be made to encroach upon
them.
	I leave to your sound discretion your own movements, after commu-
nicating as above directed with Lieutenant Commanding Temple and
the NJ, S. consul at Nassau, whether to return here with informatio

Page 257

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	257


to me or to Havana, or to go direct to Baltimore with dispatches to
the Navy I)epartment; in case of the latter, showing thcse ordeis as
your authority for doing so.
	Should the cargo of the Gladiator be transshipped at Nassau or
havana I shall want early information of that fact.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
S.	F. Du PONT,
	Flag- Officer, Commanding South Atlantic Blockading Squadron.
Commander D. B. RIDGELY,
	Commanding Santiago de Cuba, Port Royal.



Report of Commander Frailey, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Quaker City, of unfriendly feeling against the United States existing
in Bermuda.
U.	S. S. QUAKER CITY,
Bermuda, December 22, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my arrival off this port to-day about
noon, when I was boarded off the point by Commander LeRoy, of the
U. S. S. Keystone State, and from him received intelligence of the bad
state of feeling existing ill all classes against the United States. Com-
mander LeRoy not being able to procure coal, except under great
disadvantages, which he will doubtless detail to you, I have concurred
in opinion with him that his best course is to put himself in communi-
cation at an early day with the Department. The representations
made by Commander LeRoy have determined me solely to comply with
my instructions by placing Lieutenant Gamble on board the Keystone
State, and not to enter the inner harbor.
	Mr. Charles M Allen U. S. consul at this place, came on board
with Commander LeRoy and fully concurred in the opinion of the
propriety of Commander LeRoy not reentering or remaining in the port.
I am, sir, very respectfully,
	JAS. MADISON FRAILEY,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report	of Commander DeCamp, U. S. Navy, slating the reasons for the
return to Hampton Roads of the U. S. S. Keystone State.

U.	S. SHIP QUAKER CITY,
Off the harbor of St. George, Bermuda, December 22, 1861.
	SIR: We arrived off St. George this morning, having sailed from
New York on the afternoon of the 18th instant.
	Commander LeRoy, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Keystone State,
boarded us off the harbor; also Mr. Allen, U. S. consul at Bermuda~.
From representations made by Commander LeRoy and Mr. Allen
respecting the very unfriendly feeling cxisting here toward all loyal
Americans, the refusal of the admiral to supply the Keystone State
with coal, their remarkable civility to the officers of the rebel steamer
Nasheille, their liberal supplies of coal and other stores to that vessel,
123A1

Page 258

258	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

the ordering our consul not to approach the port (when heretofore we
had sociably visited the officers of that establishment), and the general
feeling of animosity which is plainly shown toward us by the authori-
ties and citizens of the island, as represented by Commander LeRoy
and our consul, induce me to advise Commander LeRoy to return with-
out delay to Hampton Roads with the Keystone State, and report to the
Department.
	My reasons for so advising are that no coal will be supplied to our
ship at this place, the Keystone State can not cruise in this vicinity even
for a few days without serious danger of capture by a rebel vessel
should she be caught without coal, and I deem it essential to the public
interest that the Department be informed of the state of things here at
as early a date as possible.
	Lieutenant Gamble having already gone on board the Keystone State,
Commander Frailey has determined not to enter the port, but to pro-
ceed immediately to St. Thomas in search of the Iroquois.
	I pray you to excuse this hurried letter.
I have the honor to be, most respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOHN DECAMP,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
lion. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.




Report of Flag- Otjlcer Du Pont, U. S. Navy, commanding South Atlantic
Blockading Squadron, transmitting letter from Consul- General R. W.
Shufeldt, at Havana, Cuba, regarding blockade runners in that port.

FLAGSHIP WABASH,
-	Port Royal Harbor, S. C., December 23, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform the Department that Commander
Ridgely, commanding U. S. S. Santiago de Caba, arrived at this port on
Saturday, the 21st instant, with an important communication received
by him from Consul-General Shufeldt, at The flavannah. A copy of
this communication I mailed to you the same day, but I herewith enclose
a duplicate copy to prevent accident.
	I also enclose a copy* of my instructions to Commander Ridgely,
directing him to proceed at once to Nassau. He left this morning.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
S.	F. Du PONT,
Flag- Officer, Commanding South Atlantic Blockading Squadron.
Hon. GiDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.

[Enclosure]

CONSULATE-GENERAL UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Havana, December 18, 1861.
	Sw: I have received reliable information from Nassau that an Eng
lish steamer called the Gladiator, and loaded with arms sufficient for
25,000 men, has arrived at that port from England, the arms being
intended for the rebels. Also that the steamers Ella Warley (formerly
* See p. 256

Page 259

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	259

the Isabel, of Charleston) and Theodora had arrived there from Charles-
ton under the Confederate colors.
	The B. Warley changed her flag to the English forty-eight hours
after her arrival. The U. S. screw ship Flambeau, Captain Temple, is
iii Nassau. Has been refnsed permission by the authorities to take
coal either from the shore or from vessels loaded with the article belong-
ing to the U. S. Government; at the same time the Theodora and B.
Warley are allowed to coal.
	The party giving us the above information states that the feeling of
the people of Nassau is very hostile and volent against the United
States and its officers. I deem this of so much importance as to induce
me to advise you to proceed immediately to Port Royal and make
report to Flag-Officer Du Pont, hoping that our forces may succee in
capturing the Gladiator and her cargo and the other vessels engaged
in the trade with the Southern ports.
I am, sir, respectfully and truly, your obedient servant,
B. W. SHUFELDT,
Gonsul- General.
Captain DANIEL B. RIDGELY,
Commanding U. S. S. Santiago de Cuba, jpre8ent.



Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Moore, U. S. Navy, commanding
U.	S. ship Morning Light, of cruise in search of privateers.

U.	S. SHIP MORNING LIGHT,
At Sea, December 23, 1861.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report the U. S. ship Morning Light, under
my command, as having reached the latitude of 90 36 N. and longi-
tude 400 29 W. at yesterday noon. I have kept thus far to leeward
of the track of outward-bound vessels, and have uowjust reached the
track of the homeward bounders. I propose to work from my pres-
ent position as far to windward as the island of St. Paul [St. Paul
Rocks]; by that time I expect that my water and provisions will be
sufficiently reduced to justify bearing up for New York. Since my last
dispatch, under date of the 8th instant, by the John Bunyan, I have
to report that on the 9th we spoke, without heaving to, the schooner
Alma (British), from Digby, Nova Scotia, for Nassau. The appearance
of her decks and course she steered did not, in my judgment, reiider
it necessary to board her. On the 11th we hove to and boarded the
British bark Rains Castle, from Santiago de Cuba for Swansea. On
the 16th instant we sighted, at 8 p. in., a sail steering apparently W.
N.W. We bore down upon her and fired a rocket as a signal to heave
to. She paid no attention to the signal; filled away again, and rau
close aboard her, she acting very suspiciously. After considerable
maneuvering, a shot was fired across his bows as a signal, and we
threatened him with a broadside. This produced no more effect than
our words. After sailing around her for the third time I made him
comprehend that I wanted to board him. He then hove to. I sent my
executive officer on board, who returned and reported the Spanish brig
Slaneiro, from Carillo (Spain) for Havana. It appears that the captain
was badly frightened, which accounted for the suspicious nature of his
niovements,as everything about his papers, charts, deck, etc., indicated
that he was bound on a true voyage. Since that date I have nothin

Page 260

260	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

of importance to recount. We have eighty-five full days allowance of
water on board, which is being added to whenever we have an opportu-
nity. Hoping that my next will have more favorable news, I have the
lionor to remain,
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
HENRY T. MOORE,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding.
[Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.]



Report of Lieutenant Temple, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Plain-
beau, regarding transshipment of contraband goods at Nassau, New
Providence.
U.	S. S. FLAMBEAU,
Nassau, New Providence, December 23, 1861.
	SIR:	The steamer Ella Warley was engaged all of Saturday after-
noon alongside the ship Eliza Bonsall, in taking from her, not salt, as
I had been told she would, but cordage, gunny cloth, bale rope, and
boxes apparently containing dry goods.
	I have heard yesterday that the Theodora is at anchor at a place
called Spanish Wells, some 33 miles from here, under the lee of the
northwest end of the neighboring island of Eleutliera, and nearly
opposite the Hole in the Wall. Of course, if I find that any transship-
ment of arms is going on between these two steamers and the Gladiator,
or any other vessel, I shall change my plans accordingly, and not
allow them to escape; but as yet I am sure no such transshipmeiit has
taken place, and I feel confident none can without my knowledge.
	It may not be superfluous to mention that for a few days after our
arrival people from these two rebel steamers got into several difti-
culties with the police and the soldiery, on which occasions they rep-
resented themselves as being officers of the Flambeau; but the differ-
ence is understood now, and the unfavorable impression done away
with, since our officers have become known.
Respectfully,
WM. G. TEMPLE,
Lieutenant, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Rogers, U. S. Navy, commanding
U.	S. bark W. G. Anderson, of cruise in search of C. S. S. Sumter

U.	S. BARK W. 0-. ANDERSON,
Lat. 260 N., Long. 730 40 W., December 24, 1861.
	SIR:	I had the honor of addressing you last from Key West, under
date of November 23. Since then we have returned to the Atlantic,
where, under your orders, we have cruised in the track of the West
India vessels, ranging from the latitudes of 290 to 2O~, and longitudes
750 to 640. We have boarded and spoken many vessels, but notie
of a suspicious character, and nothing of importance has occurred.
From one of them we learn that the Sumter was at St. Pierre, Martin

Page 261

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	261

ique, on December 15, but escaped the Iroquois, which was watching
that port.
	The W. G. Anderson, since being ballasted, is quite another vessel,
and is now all that could be desired. We shall probably touch at St.
Thomas from 20th to 25th January, and until then shall cruise as before.
I have the hono~r to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WA. C. ROGERS,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant,
Commanding U. S. Bark W. a. Anderson.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy of the United States.




Report of Commander LeRoy, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Key-
stone State, ~f arrival at Hampton Roads, 17a., from Lermuda, with
news of condition of affairs at that port.

U.	S. S. KEYSTONE STATE,
Hampton Roads, Va., December 26, 1861.
	SIR: I have to report the arrival of this ship under my command
at this anchorage, four days from Bermuda. The Department in its
instructions assigned me the vicinity of Bermuda as my cruising ground
until otherwise ordered by the Department. I trust, for the reasons
below enumerated, the Department will approve of my departure from
the order and my returning to the waters of the United States.
	On Sunday, the 15th l)ecember, as I advised the Department on
that day, I anchored in Murray Anchorage, Bermuda, and after com-
municating with our consul, Mr. C. M. Allen, proceeded to the naval
anchorage, hoping to be enabled to fill there with coal, th epilot object-
ing to take this ship into the harbor of St. George, on account of her
length, etc. On Tuesday, 17th, I called on his Excellency Governor
Ord, and upon Vice-Admiral Sir Alexander Miliie, commander-in-chief
of the naval forces in the West Indies and coast of North Anierica,
the latter, whose flagship was anchored near me, having a residence on
shore some distance from the anchorage.
	On apJ)Jying to the admiral for a supply of coal, he declined, saying
his supply was not large or sufficient for his own vessels, and that I
could obtain coal at St. George. Learning subsequently from the con-
sul that he could obtain coal for me at St. George and that this vessel
could enter that port, on Thursday, the 19th, I proceeded to St. George,
and after a day or two negotiating found I could get no coal.
	On Friday, the 20th, the royal mail steamer from Halifax arrived,
bringing late news from England, and the following morning I received
a communication from our consul, accompanied by a copy of the Royal
Gazette extra, under date Bermuda, l)ecember 20, 1861.
	The intelligence brought by the steamer, together with the marked
unfriendly feeling exhibited in various ways toward the United States,
and the openly expressed sympathy in words an(l acts on the part of
the people of Bermuda toward that portion of oar country now in insur-
rection against the legitimate authorities, induced me to believe my
most proper course would be to put myself in communication with the
Depactment, uncertain, too, how soon hostilities might commence, the
impression of not only the civilians but of the military and naval men

Page 262

262	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

as expressed openly in conversation, being that war would be declared
before many days between Great Britain and the United States unless
our Government acceded to the demand said to have been made by the
British Government, and the return of the rebel envoys, Messrs. Sli-
dell and Mason, a demand I felt satisfied our Government would never
accede to.
	Satisfied no supplies would be furnished the ship by either the Gov-
ernment or citizens of Bermuda, surrounded by British cruisers ready
for a declaration of war, my every movement closely scanned, a con-
stant lookout kept by a Confederate agent, as I was informed, so that
in the event of a suspicious vessel appearing she might be warned of
my presenceon one occasion, while anchored near the dockyard, a per-
son having gone some distance to sea to warn a steamer that was sup-
posed to be a Confederate, but that proved to be a British cruisersat-
isfied me that all sympathy was with the rebels; that while a rebel
steamer could get coal, etc., from piivate sources we would be refused.
	A message was sent to me through a private source, in return for
some little act of kindness, that the pilots were directed, in the event
of a rebel vessel appearing off the islands, to notify her of the presence
of an American cruiser.
	On Sunday forenoon, the 23d [22d] December, our consul, Mr. C. 1W.
Allen, walked up to Fort George, the signal station, to ascertain what
was in the offing, and on approaching that station was told by the sen-
tinel that his orders were not to permit any American officer or citizen
to be about there. Mr. Allen informed me he had frequently visited
that spot before and even gone into the signal station. At the time of
Mr. Allemis visit they were signaling a steamer to the southward and
westward; the consul immediately came on board to see me, stating
he thought there was something suspicious about, and though they soon
after signaled her an American I deemed it a duty to proceed to sea
at once and intercept her in the event of her proving to be an enemy,
as 1 could have no control after she entered the port.
	The consul accompanied me outside, and before he left I ascertained
the approaching steamer to be the Quaker City. On repairing on board
that vessel and communicating with Commanders DeCamup and Frailey,
and after the consul expressed his views, those gentlemen concurred
with inc in thc~ opinion it was my duty to return home and lay these
matters before the Department at once. I had determined to have left
St. George on the morning of the 23d, but the occasion referred to
took me to sea on the 22d.
	1 regret to report the appearance of the smallpox on board while at
Bermuda, the second case, a severe one, having been reported to inc on
Saturday night. I am satisfied if the presence of that disease had
become known to the authorities it would have served as an excuse for
peremptorily ordering me from their waters, and won ld have, in the
event of my returning in a week or two, been used as a reason for pro-
hibiting my entering their l)ort at all.
	On Sunday, the 23d [22d], Lieutenant William M. Gamble, U. S.
Navy, reported for duty. I would state that the British naval officers
were personally very polite and attentive. Immediately after my return
from the Quaker City we parted company.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. E. LEROY,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 263

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS-UNION.	263

Seizure of the Danish bark Jorgen Lorentzen, December 26, 1861.

Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Moore, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Morning
Light, of examination of suspicious vessel Union, of Baltimore, and capture of Danish bark
Jorgen Lorentzen.

U.	S. SHIP MORNU~G LIGHT,
At Sea, December 26, 1861.
	SIR: Since my last to you, under the date of the 23d, I have the honor
to inform you that in pursuance of my instructions I am endeavoring
to reach the line, but being now in the track of homeward-bound vessels,
I am somewhat doubtful of my ability to do so. We are now in latitude
6~ 45 N. and longitude 370 30 W., and instead of having N. E. trades,
which are usual at this season, we are becalmed, with frequent squalls
of rain, and those vessels I have spoken report bringing the S. E. trades
to 40 N. I yesterday boarded the ship Union, of Baltimore, Md. Her
captain came on board of the Morning Light and asked me to escort
him to the next U. S. ship that we might meet to the northward, as he
represented the value of his ship and cargo at $350,000. I promised to
escort him across the calms until lie got the N. E. trades.
	In boarding vessels I have given directions that the boats crew shall
question the crew of the vessel boarded, with the view of gaining infor-
mation that can not sometimes be extracted from the quarter-deck. I
boarded the Union myself in the evening and examined her papers
casually, but found nothing suspicions; upon my return my coxswain
informed me that he had a conversation with the second mate, who
said that he overheard the captain of the Union declare that he hoped
he would be taken by a privateer, and that he meant to run his ship
into a Southern port if he could. Of course under these circumstances
I judged it expedient to institute a~ more rigid examination. This
morning I again boarded him and placed my first officer in charge of
the deck, mustering his officers an(l crew upomi the deck at the same
time. I then, with Mr. Spear, third master, Mr. Blunt, act ing paymaster,
and clerk, went to the cabin with the captain. I reexamined his papers
and feel fully satisfied that the ship wasintended for New York when she
left Shanghai. I then determined to investigate the truth of the reports
brought me by the coxswain. I placed the third mate (who proved to
be the party that was reported to have made the statements) upon oath;
he denied them most emphatically, and as I was unable to elicit any-
thing more bearing upon the captains supposed intentions, I apologized
to him for the injury that his feelings had suffered imi being examined
on board of his own ship, at the same time explaining to him that I
should not have felt that I was faithfully discharging my duty unless I
had held the examination.
	I hand you herewith for your further information a copy of the pro-
ceedings omi board, as taken by Mr. Blunt and verified by Mr. Spear,
together with Mr. Girauds (first master and executive officer) state-
ment. I amn, during this present writing, in chase of a bark, apparently
bound in; should it prove to be an American vessel, I shall detain her
long enough to send in this letter. The captain of the Union is stromigly
Southern in his proclivities, and I respectfully suggest that his conduct
needs watching after his arrival; if his secession sympathies are noth-
ing more than political opinions, he has beemm very indiscr6et in their
display abroad.
	12 m~I have the honor to inform you that my executive officer
boarded time bark above referred to, which proves to be the Danish
bark Jorgen Lorentzen, bound from Rio de Janeiro to Havana for orders

Page 264

264	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

I enclose herewith the ships papers, and, if bound on an honest voyage,
no injury is done to the owners of the vessel and cargo; but there is
no doubt in my mind of their intention to run into New Orleans if pos-
sible. I have dispatched her to New York in charge of Mr. Giraud,
acting master and executive officer ou board my ship, and have put 7
men on board with him, taking out 7 of the crew of the vessel, whom I
will dispatch to New York by first convenient opportunity. I also
enclose a list of the men sent in with the vessel and their accounts.
	floping that my action in this matter will meet your approval, and
that the cargo may be condemned as a lawful prize, I have the honor
to remain,
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant,
HENRY T. MOORE,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant,
Commanding U. S. Ship Morning Light.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy.




Letter from the Secretary of State to the Secretary of the Navy, advising reparation to
Danish Government for detontion of bark Jorgen Lorentzen.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, February 3, 1862.
	SIn: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the 1st instant, with the accompanying extracts from the report of
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Henry T. Moore, commanding the ship
Morning Light, relative to his proceedings in reference to the Danish
bark Jorgen Lorentzen. In view of the place where that vessel was
overhauled, those proceedings can not be justified. If the Jorgen
Lorentzen had been met with near the coast of the United States and
there had been reasonable cause to suspect an intention on her part to
evade the blockade,it would have been the duty of the commander
of the Morn ing Light to have warned her off by an endorsement on her
papers, and if she had then attempted to enter a port of the United
States her capture would have been warrantable.
	The Danish Government will have reason to expect reparation for
the injury in this case, and it seems to me that it would be preferable
to anticipate a formal demand therefor. If you concur with me in this
view, I wonid suggest that you name some person to act as commis-
sioner on the part of the United States, for the purpose of assessing
any pecuniary damage in the case, and I will request Colonel I~aasloff,
the charge daffaires of Denmark, to name a person on the part of his
Government.
	It has, however, been intimated to be me by Colonel IRaasloff that
the behavior of Lieutenant Moore toward the commander of the Danish
vessel was unduly harsh and overbearing. Should this have been so,
good policy would seem to indicate that lie should in a signal manner
be made sensible of the displeasure of his own Government.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
WILLIAM H. SEWARD,
[Secretary of State.]
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy

Page 265

OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.	265

Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to the Secretary of State, concurring in his opinion
regarding the Danish bark Jorgen Lorentzen.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, February 5, 1862.

	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communi-
cation of the 3d instant~,in relation to the capture of the Dauish bark
Jorgen Lorentzen by the U. S. S. Morning Light.
	The course of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Moore is wholly inex-
cusable, and any damage that may have resulted should be repaired.
There can be no objection to the appointment of a commission to
make an assessment in the case, as suggested by yon, and the Depart-
ment would name Moses Taylor, esq., of New York, as a suitable com-
missioner on the part of the United States.
	The Morning Light is now cruising, but will return in a few weeVs,
when Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Moore shall be made aware of the
impropriety of his conduct. The Danish minister should be informed
that Mr. Moore is not an officer in the regular Navy, but has merely an
acting appointment for temporary service.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Hon. WM. H. SEWARD,	[Secretary of the Navy.]
Secretary of State.


Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Moore, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Morning
Light, stating reasons for seizure of Danish bark Jorgen Lorentzen.


U. S. Snw MORNING LIGHT,
Brooklyn Navy Yard, March 6, 1862.
	Sin: I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your esteemed com-
munication of 3d instant. In reply I beg to state that I had not the
information in relation to the law of blockade that your letter affords
me at the time that I seized the Danish bark Jorgen Lorentzen, and
that before I decided to send her into New York as a prize, I carefully
searched through the legal works put on board for my guidance and
could find nothing that bore upon her case. Her charter party bound
her to go to New Orleans if ordered there from Havana, under a penalty
of 500 sterling. The port of New Orleans was blockaded at the date
of the charter party, and no provision was made in that document to
guard the captain against the contingency of its being blockaded when
he might arrive at Havana. The mind of the captain of the Jorgert
Lorentzen seemed to be relieved when told that I thought I should have
to send hint into New York. He stated that it was the wish of the
owners of the cargo to have it go to New Orleans, and volunteered
information in relation to an American bark that was to have sailed
(ten days after he left Rio de Janeiro), under the Bremen flag, and with
the same kind of papers that he had. His manner brought to my mind
conviction that he felt himself relieved from anxiety in regard to his
vessel, and, indeed, he stated that he was glad to go to New York
direct.
	in reply to the informal charge of harsh and overbearing conduct, I
deny it most emphatically, and on the contrary assert that my conduct
toward him was of the most polite and considerate nature, and that II
even exceeded the necessities of the case by sending a polite invitation
to the captain to come on board and take lunch with mc. When h

Page 266

266	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

came on board of the Morning Light I treated him politely, and when
informed by him of a piece of rudeness on the part of one of my officers
(a masters mate) I rebuked the officer and apologized to the captain.
If further explanation is deemed necessary I respectfully ask to be
ordered to Washington to explain in person, or that an inquiry be
instituted into my conduct.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
HENRY T. MOORE,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding, U. S. N.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Lieutenant Temple, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Plain beau
relative to the Gladiator and other blockade runners at Nassau, New
Providence.
		    U. S. S. FLA1~IBEAU,
	Nassau,	Providence, December 28, 1861.
	SIR: I was glad to learn by the arrival of the U. S. S. Santiago de
Cuba, on the evening ot the 25th instant, that the Government and
each vessel of the Atlantic Blockading Squadron had been notified of the
condition of affairs at this port up to the time of the Karnaks depar-
ture for Havana, on the 16th. I was further gratified by Commander
IRidgelys approval of my course here, after having conimunicated to
him all that had occurred since that date. The Santiago de Cuba hay-
ing put in here, ostensibly for coal, went to sea again on the afternoon of
the 26th, n ominallybound toKey West, but real~y to warn the Gulf Block-
ading Squadron of the condition of affairs here. I have remained forty-
eight hours longer, partly to give Commander iRidgely that much start of
the possible departure of the Gladiator, and partly to be consistent
with many things I have been obliged to say as to my intentions and
wants; but it was the opinion of Commander Ridgely, as well as my
own, that, under the changed aspect of affairs, it was better for me to
get to sea soon, and I therefore leave to-day, also for Key West to take
in coal, but with other intentions, which will appear presently.
	In the first place, I know it has been several times under discussion
in the executive council whether this vessel should not be ordered
away from this port; and I have good reason to believe that the
patience of the colonial authorities would become exhausted in a few
days more, and that nothing but a little diplomacy has hitherto saved
us from being sent away.
	Again, the fact of my lying here and watching the Gladiator
(although compelled to do so in order to render my vessel seaworthy,
and on account of my illness) might, in case we followed her out and
captured her, render the seizure illegal; in which case the Govermuent
would not only have to disavow my acts, but also make restitution aiid
reparation.
	Still, again, I have information that it is in debate with those who
have control of the Gladiators movements whether to transship her
camgo to smaller vessels in case of further detention by our presence,
or to make a dash herself- in which last case I am advised of the
route she will take, and, even if she should escape capture by this
vessel, it seems next to impossible that she should elude the other
United States cruisers on the coast

Page 267

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	267

	Now, it is clear to my mind that we have delayed her departure
from this port for fifteen days past, and in the meantime notice has
been given to the blockading squadron, and it would evidently be
bad policy either to force her to divide lier cargo among several
smaller vessels, or to allow this vessel to be forbidden any further
entrance into Nassau. I have therefore decided to take measures to
intercept and capture her, according to my instructions. in case my
information regarding her intended route should pros e correct.
	The steamer Ella Warley has nearly completed loading, and although
there are several articles in her assorted cargo (such as lead) that can
be used for warlike purposes, yet the general character of it is such
that no presumption of contraband would be tenable. There was quite
an ostentatious display of the passage of muskets this morning from
the ship Eliza Bonsall to her, but I am convinced that there were not a
dozen in all, and that they were passed back again out of our sight and
again displayed, so as to create the impression that they numbered
many more. I think it better, therefore, that this vessel should be cap-
tured while attempting to run the blockade, rather than by us, before
her intention to do so becomes clearly manifest.
	It is perhaps worthy of remark that H. B. M. S. Steady went to sea
on the afternoon of the 26th, about three hours after the Santiago de
Cuba; that she returned off the bar about midnight, and exchanged
signals with II. B. M. S. Bull Dog; and finally that she came in and
anchored at noon of yesterday, when the Bull Dog went out in her
place and is still cruising in the offing, apparently under sail alone.
Respectfully,
	WiW. G. TEMPLE,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Lieutenant, Commanding.
Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Commander Frailey, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Quaker
City, of arrival at St. Thomas, West Indies.

U.	S. S. QUAKER CITY,
Island St. Thomas, West Indies, December 28, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my arrival in this port yesterday in
four and a half days from Bermuda, off which port I couimnuicated
with Commander LeRoy, of the Keystone State, and placed on board of
that vessel Lieutenant William M. Gamble, who had been directed for
duty as her executive officer.
	We have arrived here at an unfortunate period of time (Christmas
holidays) to expedite coaling operations to continue our cruise, as labor-
ers will not work; but as the Iroquois is absent on a cruise and is not
expected here for several days yet, I presume the Quaker City will be
in a state of forwardness to proceed on a cruise in a very short time
after her arrival. Nothing certaiu is known of the movements of the
Sumter since the boarding of the Miontmorenci.
	The speed of the ship has not met with my expectations, as at no
time since leaving New York has she accomplished over 10 knots per
hour. Her starboard forward boiler commenced leaking (a rivet having
blown out a few hours after leaving New York), producing considerable
inconvenience to the crew on the berth deck by escape of steam, bti

Page 268

268	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

which has, in a measure, been remedied temporarily and now occupies
the attention of the engineer. Since steam has been discontinued two
additional holes have been discovered in the same boiler, but which
Mr. Farrer, chief engineer, believes can readily be repaired.
	The expression of my opinion as made known to you in my letters of
the 11th and 14th instant as to the incompetency of the three acting
masters detailed for duty in this ship has been fully realized, not
one of them being capable of performing the duties which necessarily
devolve upon them.
	The ship being found deficient in many necessary articles, I have
deemed it proper to supply the deficiencies, which will, of course, dimin-
ish the funds in the paymasters hands, and would respectfully request
that authority may be given me to replenish our means by bills or
otherwise, as the Department may deem proper.
I am, sir, very respectfully,
JAMES MADISON FRAILEY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.




Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Commander LeRoy, U. S. Nary,
commanding U. S. S. Keystone State, approving his course in returning
to the United States.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 30, 1861.
	SIR: I have received your communication of the 26th instant, report-
ing your arrival at Hampton Roads with the Keystone State, having
deemed it prudent, for reasons stated, to return to the United States
and communicate with the Department. Your course is approved.
As soon as the smallpox disappears from the Keystone State and she
is ready to proceed to sea you will inform the Department and await
its orders.
I am, respectfully, your obedjent servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
Commander WM. E. LEROY, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Keystone State, Hampton Roads, Va.




Report of Lieutenant Temple, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Plain.
beau, relative to blockade runner Gladiator.

[U. S. S. FLAMEEAU],
AT ANCHOR ON THE BAHAMA BANKS,
Lat. 230 5 N., Long. 780 1 W., January 1, 1862.
	SIR:	The information 1 received before leaving Nassau, as to the
intended movements of the Gladiator, came to me from such a source
that I placed full reliance upon it, and was to the effect that she would
get under way openly, and if this vessel followed her out, would go
around the northern and eastern sides of New Providence Island, int

Page 269

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	269

Coclirane Anchorage, taking care to keep always within 3 miles of the
shore. The pilot I had engaged had already been frightened, cajoled,
and bribed by the Gladiators people into refusing to go with me, and
had been offered $1,000 to take that vessel out and over the banks;
and as we could obtain no other, it was not expected that we could
follow her in there, even if I were willing to subject myself to the
indignation of the authorities by such a course. While, therefore, I
was expected to be at a loss what to do next, she was to choose a
favorable opportunity and run through to the tongue of ocean, past
the southern side of the island, and so down to Washerwoinans Cut
and across the Banks into the Old Bahama Channel, and, of course,
into the Gnlf of Mexico.
	Even if I discovered this movement and gave chase, it was reckoned
quite correctly that I would be unable to follow on through such iiitri-
cate and shallow channels, but would have to come first around the
western end of New Providence, and theii through one of the deep chai~.
nels at the bottom of the tongue of the ocean, by which means she
would get at least 60 miles the start of us. I therefore gave out that it
had become necessary for us to go to Key West for coal, and by start-
ing at noon and at low water of the 28th Ii prevented her, so far as pos-
sible, from getting to sea on the same day, for she was not only moored
with two anchors to the bows, but had the stream anchor out for a stern
mooring, to prevent hex~ swinging to the tide and grounding, and from
my observation of their manner of working I am confident they could
not get out for at least twenty-four hours. We had passed Stirrup
Cay by sunset (and, I hope, were so reported at Nassau), and crossed
the banks on a S. W. and S. S. W. course during the night, having not
less water than 2 fathoms.
	At 4 a. m. of the 29th, and while still steering to he southward and
westward, we passed a brig at anchor abreast of Orange Cay, probably
waiting for daylight to run to the westward, and agaiu I hope we were
so reported. After that wealtered the course and reached this anchor-
age without seeing any land or vessel.
	In laying my plans I have given the captain of the Gladiator credit,
without knowing him, for at least as much intelligence and experience
as I have myselL I therefore reckon upon his waiting at Nassau until
the bad weather attending the new moon which is now upon us shall
have passed away, when, I suppose, he will take some small craft in
tow, and on arriving at about latitude 230 15 N. and longitude 770 45/
W. will send the pilot back, and stand on nearly for the spot where we
are waiting for him. It is not improbable, however, that, no longer
having the fear of our immediate pursuit, he may run through one of
the deep channels at the bottom of the tongue of ocean and leave his
pilot on Lobes Cay, where there is a light-house. I was led to this last
supposition by seeing yesterday a vessel passing, about 10 miles dis
taut from us, to the southward and eastward, which looked very much
like the light-house tender that we left in ~ assan, and I am prepared
to believe in any amount of complicity between the authorities of Nassau
and the Gladiators people. I doubt if she discovered us, unless (as is
unusual with such vessels) she had a lookout aloft expressly for the
purpose. But it is impossible for this vessel alone to guard all the ave-
nues of escape, and I can only select that omie which, in my judgment,
promises the best chance of success.
	If there were another United States vessel stationed about 40 miles
southeast of us I should feel pretty confident of intercepting the Glad-
iator; but now, whichever course I pursue, I think the chances of escap

Page 270

270	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.


are rather in her favor. I shall remain in this vicinity all the rest of
this week, and then go to Key West for more coal.
	Respectfully,	Wi~t. G. TEMPLE,
	Lieutenant, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Commander Ridgely, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Santi-
ago de Cuba, of cruise from December 23, 1861, to January 3, 1862.

U.	S. S. SANTIAGO DE CUBA,
Key West, January 3, 1862.
	SIR:	I wrote to the Department on the 21st December from Port
Royal, S. C., where I had been to communicate with Flag Officer
Du Pont. He ordered me to proceed to Nassau, New Providence, and
find out the facts in rehition to the letter of Consul-General Shufeldt, aiid
communicate them to the Department. I left Port Royal on the 23d
i)ecember, and arrived at Nassau on the evening of the 25th December.
I saw there Lieutenant Commanding Temple, of the Elambean, and the
U. S. consul. They informed me they had written fully to the Depart-
ment everything that had taken place at Nassau, three days previously,
by the English steamer to New York. I called the next day on the
governor and commander of the forces, and omitted none of the
courtesies of the harbor. The Santiago drew too much water for the
harbor and grounded at low tide. I left the next evening, and having
some repairs to make to the engine, came here. I wrote to the consul
at Havana that I could be found here, with which port there is almost
daily communication.
	The engine will be ready to morrow, when I shall leax~e to cruise off
the north side of Cuba and in a line with Tortugas and Cedar Keys.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
DANL. B. IRIDGELY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. G. WELLES,
Secretary of Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commander Frailey, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Quaker
City, from St. Thomas, West Indies, of intention to cruise ~n search of
C. S. S. Sumter.
[U. S. S. QUAKER CITY,]
St. Thomas, West indies, January 3, 1862.
	SIR:	I had the honor to inform you, on the 28th ultimo, of my arrival
in this bay the day l)revious, in eight and one-half days from New York,
via Bermuda, at which latter port I communicated with Commander
LeRoy, commanding steamer Keystone State, and placed on board of her
Lieutenant W. M. Gamble, who reported for a passage the day previous
to my leaving New York, and in which letter I detailed the difficulties
attending the supplying of this ship with coal and other supplies at
this period of the Christmas and New Years festivities. Since then I
have taken on board 184 tons coal and a quantity of water, with other
necessary supplies, besides making repairs both to woodwork as wel

Page 271

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	271

as to boilers, and am now awaiting the arrival of Commander Palmer
in the Iroquois, which vessel has been absent from St. Thomas nineteen
days on a cruise, her destination unknown to anyone here, but which
vessel is daily and hourly expected.
	Nothing has been heard from the Sumter since she boarded the
American ship Montmorenci. The general opinion appears to prevail
here that she has shifted her quarters to a more northern latitude.
Immediately upon the arrival of the Iroquois I will depart on a cruise;
eveii earlier should her arrival be delayed beyond the 6th instant, as
the consul represents she had but twenty-five days provisions on board
at the time of her departure from this port. Be pleased to transmit at
an early period authority to draw bills on the Government, with copies
of drafts, such as are authorized by the Navy Department, as the
expenses of the ship must necessarily be heavy during her stay in this
vicinity and the funds on hand amounting only to a small sum. I am
gratified in adding that the officers and crew continue to enjoy very
good health.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant, etc.,
	JAS. MADISON FRAILEY,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Lieutenant Temple, U. S. Navy, com-
mandinq U. S. S. Plambeau, to report for duty to Flag- Officer Du Pont,
U. S. Navy, commanding South Atlantic Blockading Squadron.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 3, 1862.
	SIR:	I herewith enclose a duplicate of the Departments letter of the
31st ultimo, acknowledging the receipt of your several dispatches and
approving of your course generally.
	The Department has decided to withdraw the Plambeau from her
present services. If circumstances are such that, in your judgment,
you can prudently leave Nassau, you will proceed with the Flarn beau
to Port Royal, S. C., and report to Flag-Officer Du Pont as a part of the
squadron under his command. Should you not feel able to continue
longer in your present command, Flag-Officer Du Pont will assign an
officer to the Fiambean and you can return home by the first opportu-
nity offering from Port Royal.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,

Lieutenant Wwr. G. TEMPLE, U. S. Navy, [Secretary of the Navy.]
Commanding U. S. S. Flambean, Nassau, New Providence.


Report of Captain Wynn, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship ]lIacedonian,
of arrival at Boston, Miass.,from St. Thomas, West Indies.

U. S. SHIP MACEDONIAN,
Navy Yard, Boston, January 6, 1862.
	SIR:	I sailed with the Macedonian from St. Thomas, West Indies, on
the 3d of last month, and the ship is now (at 3 p. in.) being secured
at the navy yard wharf

Page 272

272	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	There was no occurrence of any particular interest upon the passage
beyond that of the unusual peril and suffering of everyone on board
after passing, on the 23d December, the parallels of Nantucket and
Georges Shoals, in consequence of the continued gales and the
extremely cold weather during most of the time since then.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAMES GLYNN,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLS,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.




Report of Commander DeCamp, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Iroquois,
of assuming command of that vessel at St. Thomas, West Indies.

U.	S. S. IROQUOIS,
St. Thomas, West Indies, January 7, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you that, in obedience to your order
of the 14th nitimno, I took passage in the U. S. S. Quaker City, and that
on the 7th instant, at St. Thomas, we fell in with the U. S. steam sloop
of war Iroquois, and that on that day I relieved her commander of the
command of that vessel, as authorized by your order of the 14th ultimo.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOHN DECAMP,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.




Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Captain Glendy, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Saratoga, to leave Africa and cruise fom pro.
tection of commerce.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 7, 1862.
	SIR:	The Department has decided to withdraw the Saratoga from
service on the southwest coast of Africa, and directs you to proceed
north with that ve8sel and cruise amongst the Western Islands princi-
pally. Occasionally you will touch at Madeira, the Canaries, Gibraltar,
Cadiz, and Lisbon, communicating with our representatives at those
places. You will be vigilant for the protection of American commerce
against the piratical cruisers of the rebellious States. Keep the Depart-
ment advised of your proceedings and movements. I have this occa-
sion to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of October 30, written at
St. Helena.
I am, respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
	Captain WM. M. GLENDY,
Commanding U. S. S. Saratoga, West Coast of Africa

Page 273

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	273

Report of Lieutenant Temple, TL S. Navy, commanding U. &#38; S. Plain-
beau, of cruise from December 29, 1861, to January 7, 1862.

U.	S. S. FLAMBEAU
Key West, Pta., January 7, 1861 [1862j.
	SIR: I have to report that having waited six days on the banks,
and during that time having been sighted by several vessels, I deemed
it highly improbable that we would capture the Gladiator by remain-
ing longer; and, as our coal was nearly exhausted, we started for this
place on Saturday night, the 4th instant, and arrived here yesterday
morning.
	On our arrival, Commander Swartwout directed me to tow the store-
ship Nightingale to sea, as she had been ready and windbound for four
days, and as it was important she should get off. That duty having
been performed we returned iu the afternoon and made arrangements
for immediate coaling. The coal vessel is alongside of us now; and so
soon as we are filled up I shall start for Nassau, to get the mail by the
Karnak, and from thence (unless otherwise ordered or diverted by cir-
cumstances) I shall visit every port in the Bahamas where this vessel~
can get in.
Respectfully,
	WM. G. TEMPLE,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Lieutenant, Commanding.
Secretary of the Navy.



Letter from Commander DeCamp, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Iro-
quois, to the Assistant Secretary of the Navy, giving an account of the
movements of United States vessels in the vicinity of St. Thomas, West
Indies.
U.	S. S. IROQUOIS,
St. Thomas, West Indies, January 8, 1862.
	DEAR SIR: Frailey became so anxious to go to sea that I consented
that he go on Monday, the 6th, provided the Iroquois did not come in
by that day, to be gone from off this harbor four days, then to return
within signal distance with our consul. The Iroquois came in on Sun-
(lay morning, and Tuesday, the 7th, I relieved Palmer of his command,
and the same day Frailey went to sea, bound east, we having established
a mode of communication (to be left at the various islands) by which
each can know with tolerable certainty the movements of the other, as
well as any information essential for us to know. No reliable news
can be had of the Sumter, but Palmer thinks that she is now cruising
east of Barbados and that she will return to Martinique in about
twenty days from this time. Therefore Fraileys cruise east, and by
the time that it will be necessary for him to return to St. Thomas for
coal this ship will have relieved him, as it were, and failing to accom-
plish the particular object we have in view, a new course will be
adopted which will insure a thorough search of the West Indies,
the particulars of which you will be informed by the first safe convey-
ance. Not a soul knows or will know where I am going. Spies are
here disguised as Down East Yankees. Dinners and breakfasts are
lavished upon us, beds, etc., are at our disposal, but n one of them
have I accepted. When I sail from here the U. S. consul alone will
123A.1

Page 274

274	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

know where we are going. I am well satisfied that the Sumter is not
on the coast of Cuba, San Domingo, or Porto [Puerto] Rico. She may
be to leeward, but 1 doubt it.
	Having disposed of the Sumter, I will touch upon coal and our facil-
ities here for obtaining it. Mr. Ball (an Englishman) owns the dock
on which our coal is stored. Our coal is placed as far from the dock as
possible, while his coal (Pitston coal) is stowed immediately at the
landing.
	Mr. Ball has a big pile, I should say 2,000 tons. Mr. Ball is a mer-
chant and probably has an eye to a small profit, say 500 or 600 per cent.
This coal is clearly meant for our use, and in the event of war with Eng-
land, Mr. Ball, being a loyal subject of 0-reat Britain, would not sell his
coal to an enemy; nevertheless, I think the coal could be had, prob-
ably from a Frenchman here, or a Dane might sell it to us, but the price
would be English. All hands here think that we are in for a war with
Jlohn] Binlil, and at this coal yard every obstacle is thrown iii our way,
except by the person who delivers it; he is civil enough, but we are not
allowed to make a hawser fast to either of the neighboring wharves,
and only allowed to haul to Balls wharf by a written order. This
-shows a hostile feeling to us generally, but all the negroes are our
strong friends, and the Danish authorities are with us if they dare.
Already there is talk of England taking possession of these islands in
the event of a war with the United States, and if they should do so our
chance in the West Indies would be but small. There would only remain
to us friends in San Domingo and oim the Spanish Main, where harbors
are not fortified, and our ships taking refuge there might receive the
same welcome and similar protection afforded the Essex at Valparaiso,
the Armstrong at Fayal, and the Levant at Porto Praya. I suggest
that some other arrangement be made here for the receipt and delivery
of our coal, and that myself or the senior officer on this station make
the arrangement. I know that we are paying an awful price for but
small accommoda~ion; I think I can make a more s4isfactory arrange-
ment if authorizeu to do so.
	In conclusion I will inform you that the moment the engine is ready
for operation (tl~e 16th, they say), we will be off the harbor of St. Pierre
on the 18th or 19th to meet the Quaker City, when our future track will
be decided upon. Pray excuse me for boring you with private letters,
but I can only afford to write public dispatches on special occasions.
Very truly,
JOHN DECAMP.
(1.	~T Fox, ESQ.,
Assistant Secretary of the Navy, Washington City, D. C.

	P.	~.The English are sending out Armstrong guns for their ves-
sels here.




Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Flag- Officer Bell, U. S. Navy,
commanding Pacific Squadron, regarding a rumored project to fit out a
privateer to prey upon commerce in Pacific Ocean.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 8, 1862.
	Sin:	1 enclose for your information a copy of a communication, dated
December 3, 1861, received by Mr. H. B. Forbes, at Boston, from Mr

Page 275

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	275

C.	Ward, jr., at Yalparaiso, relative to a movement thought to be ou
foot, by parties interested in the rebel cause, to fit out a privateer in
some port on the Pacific coast to prey upon our commerce in that ocean.
The writer of the communication is a man of character.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
Flag-Officer CHARLES H BELL
Commanding Pacific Squadron, Panama, New arenada.

[Enclosure.]


YALPARAISO, December 3, 1861.
	DEAR SIR: My object in writing results from a love of country,
home, and our glorious Union. I deeply regret our revolutionary mis-
fortunes, and with a desire to serve my country I write to you upon a
matter which has come to my knowledge within a few weeks. In cas-
ual conversation a short time since with a rank secessionist, who did
not recognize me as an American, I learned that an attempt would soon
be made to fit out a irivateer for this coast from one of the ports on the
Pacific side; that he was expecting some guns from Europe, for which
provision had been made. He took with him to the North a box of Colt
revolvers, which I saw, and reported that he was to return for muskets
and rifles as soon as all was prepared. At first I thought it was mere
brag, but I have since seen several Peruvians who have given me
information to confirm this account. I think it can be easily done.
There are islands where prizes can be taken. Having been a long time
on this coast I shall be glad at any time if I can do anything for my
country within the power of a true Unionist, free of any charge.
C.	WARD, JR.
R.	B. FORBES, Esq.,

Boston.



Report of Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tusca-
rora, of arrival at Southampton, England, and of the presence of the C.
S. S. Nashville at that port.

U.	S. S. TUSCARORA,
Southampton, January 9, 1862.
	Sin:	I have the honor to report that on leaving the United States I
decided to touch at Fayal, that I might be enabled to take in coal
there, and also that I might, on the way from that place to England,
be in the track of any vessels outward bound to the Southern ports.
	My passage has been of almost constant storms, but I reached this
port yesterday, and am glad to find that the Nashville is in port. She
is ready for sea and had steam up when I arrived.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
T.	AuGS. CRAVEN,
Commander,
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy

Page 276

276	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Greesy, U. S. Nacy, commanding
U.	S. ship mo, of cruise from September 23, 18G1, to Jauaary 10, 1862.

(T. S. SHIP INO,
Boston, January 10, 1862.
	Sin: I have the honor to inform you that I arrived at this yard
to-day with the U. S. ship mo under my command. I confirm my let-
ter of December 6 to the Department, per schooner Northern Belle,
bound for Boston, and placed on board latitude 210 21 N., longitude
590 59 W., which I trust has duly come to hand, failing which, I enclose
duplicate. In obedience to the original sealed ordeis of the Depart-
ment, dated September 23, I have cruised in the latitudes prescribed,
and, to the best of my discretion, carried out the requirements of the
and ba
Department, and returned to Boston for water, provisions, - llast,
and await further orders. My requirements can be supplied, if neces-
sary, in thirty-six hours.
	I regret to state the death of Benj. S. Cloutman, landsman, on
the 18th ultimo, by a fall from the fore royal yard. His account will
be duly forwarded.
	I regret to reiterate my statement, as contained iu my letter of the
6th ultimo, as to the incompetency of Acting Masters Charles Endicott
and F. J. Dunton. I earnestly request they may be detached from the
ship and others more competent ordered. I am happy iii stating that
this ship fully justifies the expectations in regard to her as to stanch-
ness, sailing qualities, and adaptability to the service required. She
carries her battery well, in no way affecting her strength or fastenings.
Trusting the Department may approve my course in my novitiate in
the U. S. Navy,
	I am, respectfully,	JOSIAH ~. CREESY,

Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding mo.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy, Washington, D. C.



Letter from U. S. minister to England to Commander Craven, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, enjoining prudence while within the
jurisdiction of a neutral power.

LEG-ATION OF THE UNITED STATES,
London, January 11, 1862.
	Sin: I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 9th
instant, by the hands of Midshipman Johnson.
	It gives me great pleasure to learn the object of your visit. The pro-
tection of American commerce in these waters is becoming a matter of
the first necessity. At the same time I feel it my duty to enjoin upon
you the greatest caution and prudence, in avoiding any just ground of
complaint against the Government of the United States, whilst you are
within the jurisdiction of a neutral power. Already I have received a
representation from her Majestys principal secretary of state for foreign
affairs in respect to the alleged landing of some of your men to watch
the Nashville, and a request that I would warn you from doing any acts
that might lead to a collision with the authorities of this Kingdom or
with other parties within this jurisdiction. The importance of attend

Page 277

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	277


4ng to this is doubtless so thoroughly understood. by you as to render
further notice of it superfluous.
	I regret also to inform you tbat the Government will adhere to the
established rule of international law, which does not l)errnit the armed.
vessels of two so-called belligerents to leave the same neutral port
within twenty-four hours of each other. Thc meaning of this is that
if you ~hould sail first, the Nashville can not 1e ye until twenty-four
hours have elapsed, and just so if the respective times of departure
were reversed. This is agreeable to the rule and iuiast therefore be
submitted to.
	I am likewise bound to let you know, from information received from
Paris, that there are projects afloat of combining the movements of four
or five steamers under the Confederate flag, to wit, the Sumter, the
Nashville, the Bermuda, the Pacific, and possibly one more. I give you
this notice in order to prevent your being surprised, although I do iiot
believe much will come of it. The telegraph can keep you informed of
their respective positions. I understand the Bermuda has sailed from
ilavre, but I am not quite sure of the fact. You have the Nashville and
the Pacific under your eye.
	I trust that the Government has sent out sonie other vessels to
cooperate with you in this important duty.
lam, sir, your obedient servant, CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS.

	Captain T. AUGUSTUS CRAVEN, U. S. Navy,
Southampton.



Report of Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tusca-
rora, relative to C. S. S. Nashville, at Southampton, England, enclosing
correspondence on the same subject.

U. S. S. TUSCARORA,
Southampton, January 13, 1862.
	Sin: I have the honor to report to you that I arrived at this place
on the 8th instant, and sent you a letter by the mail of the next day
informing you that I had found the Nashville in port.
	The pirate steamer is ready for sea and is lying at the docks, about
a mile from which 1 have anchored; there being two outlets to this
port, I can only keep watch for the vessel by lying at anchor inside.
	Immediately on my arrival I made arrangements for a surveillance
over the movements of the pirate by sending on shore an officer and
three men, who were to give me notice by signal should the Nashville
start at night; by some indiscretion the party attracted attention, and
were sent off by the authorities. To enable me to keep my boats and
men constantly on board, I hired a pilot boat to attend the ship, and
on the second night 1 stationed that pilot boat on the lookout; this
also was discovered and objected to.
	(in the 10th I received from the captain of the guard ship a notifica-
tion that I would be required to observe that portion of international
law which forbids the sailing of one belligerent cruiser within twenty-
four hours of the departure of another from a neutral port, and on the
following day I was visited by Captain Patey, royal navy, senior officer
of the port, who gave me a second comumunication to the same effect.
It being impossible to deny the force of a doctrine which had its origin
-	in oar own courts, I of course yielded the point, and finding that m

Page 278

278	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

guard boat had also given offense, I agreed to withdraw it, and give no~
cause for complaint. I enclose you copies of the notes which passed.
	You will thus perceive, sir, that it will not be difficult for the Nash-
ville to escape me during any dark and stormy night; my only chance
rests in my being underway before she can pass me. With this end in
view, I have steam constantly ready and slip ropes on my chain, having
enjoined the utmost vigilance on my officers and crew. I trust we will
be enabled to prevent this pirate from leaving the port.
	I am informed by Mr. Adams that the rebels have conditionally
purchased the steamer Pacific, now lying here, to be delivered at
iNassan, and will endeavor to possess myself of all of the facts.
	I must urge upon the Department the necessity for sending here
another steamer as early as practicable; the two outlets could thus be
most effectually guarded.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
T.	AUGS. CRAVEN,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

~Enc1osures.]


H.	N. SHIP DAUNTLESS,
Southampton, January 10, 1862.
	SIR: Having observed preparations fOr departure in the U. S. S.
Tuscarora, under your command, and also in the C. S. S. Nashville, I
beg to acquaint you that I have ret~eived instructions to prevent any
hostility takiiig place in British waters, and I beg to bring to your
notice the usual laws of nations which require that twenty-four hours
should elapse before the departure of one belligerent ship in pursuit of
the other.
	Relying upon your good judgment in this matter and the friendly
feeling existing between the two Governments,
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant,
J.	A. WILLOOX,
Captain.
	Captain CRAVEN,
Commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora.



U.	S. S. TIJSCARORA,
Southampton, January 10, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your commu-
nication of this evening.
	I am not aware that I have given any cause for your assuming that
I meditate an act of hostility in the waters of Great Britain. Claim-
ing the right of free access to and egress from the waters of a nation
believed to be in amity with the United States, and sincerely desirous
of avoiding all semblance of offeiise,
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
T.	AUGS. CRAVEN,
Commander.
	Captain J. A. WILLOOX,
Commanding H. B. lIT. Ship Dauntless

Page 279

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	279
Immediate.]	    ADMIRALTY OFFICE,
	ASouthampton, January 11, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acquaint you that I have received orders
with respect to the ship under your command and the Nashville, to
detain one vessel until the other has had twenty-four hours start.
I am, sir, your most obedient servant,
CITAS. G. E. PATEY
Senior Officer, Port of Southampton.
The CAPTAIN lIT. S. S. TUSCARORA,
Southampton.



U. S. S. TUSCARORA,
Southampton, January 11, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
this date.
	You may rest assured, sir, that I will strictly observe all the laws
by which international intercourse is regulated, and will not depart
fiom this port within twenty-four hours after the sailing of the pirate
Nashville.
I shall expect of you a strict impartiality in the matter.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
T.	AuG-S. CRAVEN,
Commander.
Captain CHAS. G. E. PATEY,
Commanding H. ill. S. Victory,
Senior Officer of the Port, Southampton.



Report of Flag-Officer Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. naval forces,
Pacific Ocean, of intended departure from Panama for San Francisco.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Bay of Panama [Panama kay], January 13, 1862.
	SIR:	I have th~ honor to inform you that I will sail from this port
for San Francisco on the 16th instant. The Lancaster has been anchored
at Panama since July 29, 1861, nearly six months. The health of the
crew has been impaired by so long a stay in a tropical climate, and the
ship requires a general overhaul. She seems to be sound, but her
decks leak badly and require, with her sides, from the copper up to
the rail, a thorough calking. I have been informed that she has not
been calked since she was first put in commission. The crank of her
engine is cracked, an(1 we (10 not know at what moment it may give
way. The new one has been on board several weeks, but can not be
put in place until we arrive at Mare Island, Cal.
	Everything is quiet here, and has been for some time past, but so
little reliance is placed iii the goveriiment of the country that there is
constantly a feverish excitement, which produces a desire on the part
of the inhabitants to keep as many armed ships here as possible.
Another inducement is the advantage to certain parties who supply
the ships with what they require, and it is principally by them, although
not altogether, that this state of feeling is kept up.
	I shall leave here the (yane, Commander Bissell, who will soon b

Page 280

280	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

joined by the Wyoming, Commander MeDougal. II. B. M. S. Tartar
is also in this harbor. On my way to San Francisco I shall stop at
Acapulco, and probably at some other of the intermediate ports, but
as I am anxious to have the slip in proper order for service, I shall
make as little delay as possible.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully,
CHAS. II. BELL,
Flag- Officer, Commanding U. S. Naval Forces, Pacific Ocean.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Report ~f Commander DeCamp, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Quaker
City, of preparations for cruising in obedience to orders.

U.	S. S. IROQUOIS,
St. Thomas, January 14, 1862.
	SIR:	On the 7th instant I had the honor to inform you that I had
relieved Commander Palmer of the command of this ship.
	Since the arrival of the Iroquois at this place on the 5th instant the
engineers have been constantly at work on the boilers and engines. By
the evening of the 15th they will be in good working order, when we
will leave here on a cruise to the eastward as far as Martinique, off
which island I expect to meet the steamer Quaker City on the 18th or
19th instant, when Commander Frailey and myself will agree upon a
plan of operation which may appear best calculated to carry into
effect the instructions we have received from the Navy Department.
I am, sir, most respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOHN DECAMP,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington City, D. C.



Report of Lieutenant Temple, U. S. Navy, comrn2anding U. S. S. Flam-
beau, relative to blockade runner Gladiator.

U.	S. S. FLAMBEAU,
Nassau, New Providence, Jannary 15, 1862.
	SIR:	I have to report onr return to this place on yesterday. The
vessel was coaled on the 7th and 8th at Key West. In the meantime
I learned from vessels direct from this place that the Gladiator was
still here on the 3d, and had made no demonstration of leaving up to
that time; and, as I judged it probable that the same blustering
weather we had experienced at Key West would exteud to this region,
and would necessarily prevent a vessel of her (Iraft from crossing the
bar, I determined to wait there until it moderated, in hopes that we
might happen to leave Key West at the same time that the Gladiator
would leave here, and so perhaps meet her about halfway, when, of
course, all doubts as to the legality of her capture arising from our
previous relative positions would disappear. With this view I remained
until Saturday morning, the 11th, but, contrary to my expectations, the
weather, after we got to sea, came on worse than before, and that even

Page 281

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	281

ing we anchored on the coast of Cuba at a place marked on the charts
l3ahia de Cadiz Cay.
	The next morning proved fine, however, and, still reckoning upon the
Gladiator8 coming out through the tongue of the ocean by the route
indicated in my letter of the 1st instant, we ran across the southern
part of the banks that night, and reached the deep channels leading
into the tongue of the ocean at noon of Monday, the 13th; passed
through Queens Channel and, as a last chance of intercepting her,
anchored at dark about 50 miles south of this in latitude 240 27 N.
and longitude 770 12 W. But on our arrival yesterday I learned that
the Gladiator had gone down, some 10 or 12 miles from here, to Coch-
rane Anchorage, on the 7th instant, and that she is still there. It is
possible that she is transferring her cargo to smaller vessels, and at the
same time, perhaps, taking in ballast, in order to preserve the same
appearance and draft of water; but if this is so it must be done at
night, as several persons interested in detecting such a movement have
failed to discover it, and I can hardly suppose that the local authorities
would dare to compromise themselves by a complicity with such a pro-
ceeding, which they could not avoid if it were done openly.
	I have called upon the authorities here, and fancylcan seea marked
and favorable change in their tone of leeling since I first met thema
change mainly due, no doubt, to the action of our Government in regard
to Messrs. Mason and Slidell, but also, in a measure, to the conduct of
those attached to this vessel; and I have deemed it would meet with the
approval of the Department to encourage this friendly disposition still
finther by an offer of our services to go down to Rum Cay to the
assistance of II. B. M. ship Conqueror, of 101 guns, which has been
wrecked there. Commander MeKillop, H. N., commanding H. B. M. S.
Bull Dog, to whom I made the offer, was duly sensible of its import, but
thought it would not be in our power to render any assistance. He
has started this morning for the second time to go there, and the gun-
boat Steady is also there; besides which they have sent to Bermuda
and Havana for more of their own vessels.
Respectfully,
	[WM. G. TEMPLE,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Lieutenant, Commanding.]
Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Lieutenant Temple, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Plain-
beau, of intended departure for Port Royal, S. C., in obedience to
orders.
U. S. S. FLAMBEAU,
Nassau, New Providence, January 16, 1862.
	SIR: I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of December
31, approving of my course generally, but no other official letters
reached me. I learn, however, from my private correspondence that,
considering the excited state of public feeling, the Department thought
it in to keep a vessel at Nassau for the present, and that I had
been ordered to proceed with the Plambean to Port Royal and report
to Flag-Officer Du Pont for duty in his squadron.
	So far as regards the effect produced by our presence upon the people
of this place lam encouraged to believe that it has thus far been highly
beneficial, but I cau readily understand that in England it might b

Page 282

282	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

viewed otherwise. I am also of opinion that we have already accom-
plished the purposes of the Government in sending us out, to the extent
of our ability; and that a longer stay among the Bahamas, flow that
our opponents have had time for reflection, would but betray our ina-
bility to prevent their traffic with the rebel States.
	I am satisfied from our own observations that the Gladiator is trans-
shipping her cargo into schooners and other small vessels, and I shall
hope to pick up some of them on the way over. At the same time, as
it is possible that my conclusions are hasty and incorrect, I shall remain
a few days longer to watch her operations.
	In view of these considerations, therefore, I have decided to leave
here for Port Royal on Sunday, the 19th, and I trust this step will meet
with the approbation of the Department.
Respectfully,
	WM. G. TEMPLE,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Lieutenant, Commanding.
Secretary of the Navy.
	P. S.Should the Department deem it expedient to order the new
cogged wheels for our windlass, as I requested in my letter of the 5th
instant, would suggest that they be sent to Port Royal instead of to
this place.
Respectfully,
	W. G. T.


Report of Commander Ridgely, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Santiago
de Cuba, transmitting correspondence regarding offer of assistance to
II. B. JLL. ship Conqueror.
U.	S. S. SANTJA&#38; O BE CUBA,
flavana, January 17, 1862.
	SIR: 1 have the honor to report that the Santiago de Cuba left Key
West on the 4th of January and cruised off the Colorado reefs and in
line between the Tortugas and Cedar Keys. On the 9th of January
at sundown we arrived here. A few minutes after coming to anchor I
was informed that H. B. M. ship of the line Conqueror was aground at
Ruin Cay, and that one of her officers had reached Havana that day to
procure a steamer. I immediately went on shore and informed the
U. S. consul-general that I was ready, and would cheerfully go to her
relief at once. We called together on her British Majestys consul-
general and made the offer. He declined the services of this steamer
in consequence of the length of time the Conqueror had been on shore,
and the assistance which had probably reached her from Nassau atid
Bermnda. At the termination of the interview with the British con-
sul he suggested I should put my offer in writing. I enclose the cor-
respondence which passed between the two consuls and myself.
	The trade from Tiavona to the States in rebellion against the Gov-
ernment has declined considerably in consequence of the vessels being
captured or driven on shore by the blockading squadron. Small Eng-
lish schooners clear foi- Matamoras with coffee, which finds its way into
Texas.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	DANL. B. RIDGELY,
	lion. G. WELLES,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 283

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
283
[Enclosures.]


U.	S. S. SANTIAGO DE CUBA,
Havana, January 9, 1862.
	SIR: I have just heard, on my arrival here, that II. B. M. ship Con-
queror is ashore on one of the windward reefs and that one of her officers
is here to procure a steamer. Please offer to Mr. Crawford, her British
Majestys consul-general, the services of this steamer to proceed at once
and render all the aid and assistance in our power.
	I will keep steam up nntil I hear from you and will leave at daylight
to-morrow morning if the services of the Santiago be accepted.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	DANL. B. BIDGELY,
	U.	S. Consul-General SHUFELDT.	Commander, U. S. Navy.


U.	S. CONSULATE-GENERAL
Havana, January 12, 1862.
	Mv DEAR SIR: Enclosed I send you a copy of a letter from J .T. Craw.
ford, esq., her British Majestys consul-general in Cuba, replying to
your offer, made through me, to go to the assistance of her British
Majestys ship Conqueror, ashore on Rum Cay.
	It will be seen that Mr. Crawford acknowledges, in the most friendly
manner, the promptness with which you proffered your services, both
in person and subsequently by letter. In thus manifesting your
sympathy for a fellow-seaman you have evinced a praiseworthy for-
getfulness of the many causes which of late have had a tendency to
estrange two governments and nations whose policy it is, and whose
fortune it has hitherto been, to remain upon the most friendly terms.
Such acts of spontaneous courtesy must have a tendency, however, to
restore this amicable relation. On this account, I am pleased that the
opportunity has presented itself, and, although your services were
declined, that the refusal has been accompanied by such good reasons
as to preclude any other than that of a sincere desire to show you that
Mr. Crawford would have accepted them had he deemed it possible that
you could be of any service.
I am, sir, truly, your friend and obedient servant,
R. W. SHUFELDT,
Consul- General.
	Commander D. B. RIDGELY,
U.	S. S. Santiago de Cuba.

[Subenolosure.]

HAVANA, January 11, 1862.
	My DEAR SIR AND COLLEAGUE: I have the pleasure of acknowledg-
ing the receipt this morning of your much-esteemed letter of the 9th
instant, enclosing that of Commander D. B. IRidgely, of the U. S. S.
Santiago de Cuba, offering to proceed immediately to the aid and assist-
ance of II. M. ship Conqueror at Rum Cay, where she is unfortunately
aground.
	Although your letter and that of Commander Ridgely have only now
been delivered, I have great pleasure in acknowledging the honor of
your and his visit at my house on the evening of the 9th, when the
considerate offer of the services of the U. S. ship was so frankl

Page 284

284	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.

ma(Ie but was declined by me, because I had reason to think that
quite effective assistance would have reached the Conqueror from Yice-
Admiral Sir Alexander Mimes command at Bermuda before the
Santiago de Cuba could arrive at the place of misfortune in the Bahamas.
	It will, however, afford me much pleasure to report this attention on
your part and on that of my friend, Commander iRidgely, to her
Majestys Government, as well as to the vice-admiral, commander in
chief of her Majestys naval forces on this station, for which, in the
meantime, I beg of you to accept my best thanks.
	I have the honor to be, my dear sir and colleague, your friend
and obedient servant,
	Jos. T. CRAWFORD,
	B. W. SHUFELDT, ESQ.,	Consul-General in Cuba.
U.	S. Consul-General, Havana.



Order from Secretary of the Navy to Commander Pickering, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge, to proceed at once to Cadiz, Spain, in
search of C. S. S. Sumter.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 18,1862.
	SIR: Instead of going directly to the gulf; in pursuance of the
Departments order of the 10th instant, you will proceed with the Hear-
sarge with all possible dispatch to Cadiz, in Spain, in search of the
piratical steamer Sumter, which vessel is reported to have arrived
recently in that place.
	If you find the Sumter has been at Cadiz, you will continue in search
of her until you overtake and capture her, or learn positively that she
has been overtaken by some other of our vessels and captured, or that
she has otherwise been made way with. Should she not have been
there or anywhere (that you can learn) in the East, you will proceed to
Key West, by way of the West Indies, and report in accordance with
your instructions of the 10th instant. This will be your course also in
the event of the Sumter having been captnred or otherwise disposed of.
	Advise the Department frequently of your movements. Although
your chief object will be the search of the Sumter, you will not omit
due diligence in all cases during your cruise, and will seize and send
into port any vessel of the enemy engaged in depredating on our com-
merce or in the transportation of arms, munitions, or contraband of war
to the insurgents.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
[GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.]
	Commander C. W. PICKERING,
Commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge, Portsmouth, N. H.



Report of Lieutenant Temple, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Flambean
relative to blockade runners at Nassau, New Providence.

U.	S. S. FLAMBEAU,
At Sea, Jan~~ary 20, 1862.
	SIR: I have to report that the rebel steamer Kate (formerly the Caro-
lina) arrived at Nassau on the mornin~ of the 18th instant, having run
the blockade at Charleston with 230 bales of cotton; and that she wen

Page 285

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	285

alongside the clipper ship Eliza Bonsall the same day to discharge,
and probably also to take in from her an assorted cargo, as the Ella
TVarlcy had previously done. The Kate is commanded by the same
Lockwood who lately left Na ssau in charge of the Theodora. He con-
firms the report that the Ella IVarley had succeeded in running the
blockade into Charleston, as also that the Theodora had got safely into
Mobile.
	The steamer Gladiator has undoubtedly transshipped her entire cargo
into small vessels, as L ascertained yesterday that she is drawing 3~
feet less water than when lying in Nassau, and she has moved up some
3 miles nearer to the harbor. In coiinectiou with this transaction, I
would inform the Department that Mr. Anderson, the attorney-general
at Nassau, read to me a circular from the foreign office in Downing
street, London, addressed to all the colonial authorities, directing them
not to interfere with the sale, purchase, or transshipment of any mer-
chandise, even in the case of its being arms, aminnnition, or equipments,
by private vessels in the service of either party to our contest. I sup-
pose, therefore, that the Gladiator went down to Cochrane Anchorage
on account of the local laws relative to powder, which, by the way, she
had been suffered to disregard by lying iii the harbor for so long a time
while having 5 tons of that material on board. It was necessary to add
that this circular was read to me in the course of a friendly conversation
t the attorney-generals office, and not at all as an official matter; and
although I deem it my duty to communicate the fact to the Government,
it would perhaps be indelicate to base a remonstrance upon this infor-
mation.
	I left Nassau on the morning of the 19th, and the same day over-
hauled three vessels, two English schooners and an American bark, in
the northeast Providence Channel, but without finding anything
informal or objectionable about them.
Respectfully,
	WM. G. TEMPLE,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Lieutenant, Commanding.
Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Commander Frailey, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Quaker
City, of two weeks cruise from St. Thomas, West Indies.

U.	S. S. QUAKER CITY,
Island of St. Thomas, West Indies, January 22, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my return to this port on the 20th
instant, after a cruise of two weeks to the eastward as far as 560 west
longitude, during which time I spoke and boarded two American ves-
sels, the Ben, of New York, thirty-one days from Rio de Janeiro, bound
to St. Thomas, also the II. G. Colhurst, of Eastport, Me., from Barbados
to St. Thomas; one English brig, the Queen Victoria, thirteen days from
New York; and the French bark Perseverant, from Marseilles, bound to
Martinique.
	On my way east I hove to off St. Pierre, and sent a boat in to com-
municate with the U. S. consul, and after cruising a week at sea pro-
ceeded to Barbados to water ship, thence again to St. Pierre and this
port

Page 286

286	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	Off St. Pierre I communicated with Commander DeCamp, of the
Iroquois, en route south and east, neither as yet having received any
information of the Sumter. I regret to report that shortly after leaving
Sandy Hook the ship commenced leaking quite badly in her upper
works, and it has gradually been increasing ever since ~o such an extent
that men have been constantly employed, while at sea, on berth deck
and in passageways bailing up water, the steerage officers having been
obliged to vacate their sleeping appartments. Since my return to this
port I have had an examination made, by a good ship carpenter from
shore, of her condition, and find, from personal inspection, that she
requires extensive calking, some of her butts and seams being very
open, and her wood ends in stem on starboard side in very bad condition,
which work is now being done, but will require some days to complete.
The air, force, and fresh -water pumps require repacking. The forward
smokestack has given away and requires considerable repairs, and two
large patches are necessary in each of Nos. 3 and 4 boilers, which are
found quite defective. Many repairs of an important nature, as reported
officially by the acting chief engineer, are rendered necessary ere we
again leave port, but which the Department may rest assured shall be
accomplished with as little delay as possible. Accompanying, I send
a list * of American vessels in port at this time, many of them having
been (Iriven in here by stress of weather while attempting [to enter] as
well as in departing from our coast, during the early part of January,
a number of them requiring quite extensive repairs to enable them to
resume their voyages. All well on board.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAS. MADiSON FRAILEY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
HON. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. (J.


Report of Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tusca-
rora, relative to the C. S. S. Nashville.

U.	S. S. TUSCARORA,
Southampton, January 23, 1862.
	SiR: I have the honor to report that by the mail of the 18th I for-
warded to you through the American minister a statement of the
position assnmed by the authorities here with regard to the Nashville.
	In a conversation I held yesterday with Captain Patey, royal navy,
the senior officer of this port, with reference to the Nashville,lie, refer-
ring tG our l)revious arraimgement that the vessel having the first start
should be allowed to proceed to sea, asked me my views as to a clear
understanding of what was meant by the first start. 1 gave my
opinion that the vessel first passing the guard ship, if only half length
ahead, should be considered as having the first start. This he told
me was not the ruling of the authorities; that with them the vessel
tirst tripping her anchor would be regarded as having the start.
Agaiimst this 1 remonstrated as au unfair decision, as my movements
were made to depend on those of the Nashville, and her anchor might
be lifted at any time, with my having no knowledge of the fact until
she should begin to move. He, however, appearing to think there
would be less risk of collision with the authorities by this defining of
* Omitted

Page 287

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
287
the expression, I yielded, though with relnctauceyielded, in short,
because there was no alternative.
	Were there but one outlet to the port, my difficulties would be
removed; by keeping at sea, I could prevent the escape of the pirate,
but I can not guard both passages, and as my movements are con-
stantly made known by telegraph, it is very easy for the pirates to
keep themselves informed of my exact position, whether below or
outside, and they may at almost any time evade me; with the assist-
ance they receive from the authorities, the advantages are all with the
pirates.
	My earnest hope now is that another vessel may soon arrive here to
aid me; with two on the watch, it will not be possible for the pirates
to escape. but in my present position 1 am made to feel powerless and
idle.
I am, very respectfully, your obedien t servant,
T.	AUGS. CRAVEN,
Corn mander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Letter from Vice-Admiral H. W. Bruce, B. N commanding H. B. ill. S.
Vtctory, to Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tus-
carora, explaining error in published statement regarding the latter
vessel.
VICTORY, at Portsmouth, January 23, 18G2.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the 22d instant calling my attention to a paragraph extracted, it
appears, from the Army and INavy Gazette, commenting upon the sup-
posed fact of the U. S. steamship of war Tuscarora, under your com-
mand, having anchored off Osborne.
	In reply I beg to inform you that on Thursday last, the 16th instant,
the signalman on duty at the dockyard semaphore reported that the
Tuscarora had anchored off Osborne. I therefore directed Captain
Coote, of H. M. ship Victory, to proceed in one of the steam tenders to
communicate with you, and, with my compliments, to request that you
would be so good as to move the ship to some other anchorage. Captain
Coote, however, had scarcely got outside the harbor when he discov-
ered that the report of the signalman was a mistakethat the Tusca-
rora, in fact, had not anchored off Osborne, but that the ship supposed
to have been her was H. M. ship Vigilant.
	I trust that this explanation will remove from your mind any feeling
of annoyance you may have experienced from the publication of the
paragraph referred to above. I can not myself point out rtol the writer
of that paragraph, or to the editor of the paper in which it appeared,
the circumstances which probably led to his being misinformed as to
the movements of your ship, because her Majestys officers are forbid-
den to publish anything in the newspapers bearing on questions arising
in the public service, and I never have any communication with public
prints.
I have the honor to be, sir, your humble servant,
II.	W. BRUCE,
Vice-Admiral, Commander in Chif.
	Commander T. AUGS. CRAVEN,
Of the U. S. S. Tuscarora

Page 288

288	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Order from Secretary of the Navy to Commander Mann, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. sloop St. Louis, to cruise in search of piratical vessels
and for the protection of commerce.

NAVY DEPARTMENT,
January 24, 1862.
	SIR: As soon as the U. S. sloop of war St. Louis, under your com-
mand,is in all respects ready for sea, you will proceed with her to the
Azores or Western Islands. The islands will be the limit of your
cruising ground on the west, which will extend south to the Canaries,
north to the port of Lisbon, and east to the Strait of Gibraltar. Any
communications that the Department may have for you will be sent to
Lisbon, care of our minister there. You will also touch at Cadiz
occasionally. You will not go out of these limits unless in search of
piratical vessels, upon reliable information received by you of the
appearance of such vessels at any l)articular point.
	You will exercise vigilance and be active in cruising for Ihe pro-
tection of our commerce, and will seize and send into l)ort any vessel
you may meet with engaged in transporting arms, munitions, contra-
band of war to the insurgents. In exercising your rights as an
American man-of-war, you will be careful of those of neutrals. Keep
the Department advised of your movements.
	Before sailing from Philadelphia, forward to the Department a mus-
ter roll of the crew and a separate list of the officers of the St. Louis.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
	Commander M. C. MARIN,
Commanding U. S. Sloop of War St. Louis, Philadelphia, Pa.



Letter from Secretary of the Navy to J. 241. Forbes, esq., of Boston, Mass.,
authorizing him to charter vessel to go in pursuit of C. S. S. Sumter.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 26, 1862.
	It is understood that one of the iron boats built to run to New Orleans
is ready for sea at Boston. You are requeste(l and authorized to char-
ter this vessel on the most favorable terms for three months or more,
to go in pursuit of the pirate Sumter. Before closing the arrangement,
however, telegraph the Department the price of charter. The Govern-
memit will furnish a lieutenant commanding, and three acting masters,
gulls, and ammunition, all else to be provided by the owners. You can
authorize such preparations to the vessel as are necessary, without
sending her to the navy yard. You may suggest to the Department a
proper person for command and three others for acting masters. The
commander can probably obtain a good crew from Volunteers. Let the
owners take all but the war risks and have a favorable proviso to
enable the Government to take the vessel at any time. Answer by
telegraph.
	When will the other boat be ready?
I am, respectfully,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.]
3.	N. FORBES, Boston

Page 289

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
289
Report of Go mander Graven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tusca-
rora, regarding requirements ~f the authorities at Southampton in regard
to ieavinq port.

U. S. S. TUSCARORA,
Southampton, January 27, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you that since my letter of the 23d
an additional rule has been supplied to me, viz, that I be required to
give twenty-four hours notice before leaving port. As it has evi-
dently been the desire of the authorities to hamper me, I determined to
meet all of these orders withont exhibiting any annoyance and give
them no chance for complaint of me. I have accordingly yielded to
these last instructions, and have at the same time notified the com-
manding officer of my intention to depart. I intend being absent no
more than twenty-four hours, and on returning to my anchorage shall
immediately repeat my notice to depart again.
	In explanation I should say that the rule adopted is that the vessel
which gives the first notice shall have priority of exit, ud so long as I
can keep this in my own hands the Nashville can not escape.
	I find nothing in international law which justifies this last rule, but
have yielded rather than have any discussion on the questiou. Should
any further exaction be made, sir, I shall feel it to be my duty to make
no more concessions.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	T. AIJGS. CRAVEN,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Gommander.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. G.




Report of Gommander Prailey, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Quaker
Gity, of intention to leave St. Thomas, West Indies, in search of G. S. S.
Sumter.

U.	S. S. QUAIS~IER CITY,
St. Thomas, January 28, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to forward the accompanying letter, which is
a translatioii from a Porto [Puerto] Rico paper, received here this morn-
ing by our respected consul at this port, John T. Edgar, esq., a copy of
which has been kindly placed by him at my disposal. The l)urport of it,
however, will have doubtless been received by you long ere this reaches
you, and I hope soon to be advised of the views of the Department in
relation to the course now to be adopted by this vessel as to the pursuing
the Sumter to the station she has chosen for further scenes of depre-
dation. Having nearly completed the important repairs to the engine,
boilers, and forward smokestack, as well as the recalking of almost the
entire length forward of the afterpart of the starboard wheelhouse I
shall endeavor to leave this port early to-morrow to comply with a previ-
ous arrangement made with Commander DeCamnp, on the 18th instant,
to communicate with him oft Martinique, on or abont the 1st proximo, so
as to act in compliance with your instructions of December 14, to act in
concert so as to insure a thorough search, after which interview my fur-
ther action iii the premises will be determined. I have the honor to
report the arrival at this port to-day of the U. S. bark Win. U. Anderson,
123A.4

Page 290

290
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
Lieutenant Commanding Rogers, putting in here for water, having
been on a cruise since November 18. All well.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAS. MADISON FRAILEY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
[fnclosure.]

	The following is a translation of an article in a paper of St. Johns
5J1 Porto [Puerto] Rico. The information it contains was
ioug tto St.Johns [San Juan] by a Spanish steamer that left Cadiz
Jannary 10,1862. The Sumter arrived at Cadiz on January 6, and was
still there January 10, 1862:
	The Madrid newspapers published a long series of telegraphic dispatches from
Cadiz, without (loubt of official origin, in which they refer to all that has occurred
in reference to the arrival at our port of the South American steamer Sumler. This
boat, of 750-horse power and 5 guns of heavy caliber, arrived from Rio de Janeiro
and Martinique, had destroyed in her passage 3 Northern vessels and brought
43 prisoners on board. The American consul solicited [the authorities] to give her
no assistance, and to make her leave, and the commandant general asked for instruc-
tions from the Government.
	In the meantime the captain of the boat declared that he had entered Cadiz in
distress, wishing to repair his vessel in the Arsenal de la Carraca, and that his
object was to cruise without a fixed direction. The Sumter was considered from the
beginning nuder quarantine restrictions, for having no bill of health.
	In the first instance the Government instructed the authorities that in their rela-
tions with said steamer they should be strictly guided by what the royal decree of
the 17th July last disposed about the mode of considering vessels coming from the
Sonthern States, which S-pain did not recognize but as a belligerent party.
	Afterwards the captain of the steamer requested the commandant general to be
permitted to deliver up to the U. S. consul the 43 prisonels. He could not accede
to this request, because, as we have stated, the steamer found herself in quaran-
tine, the quarantine having, however, to be short, for in virtue of the new orders
from the Government, the Sumter was received on the 7th instant, the prisoners
remaining under the protection of Spain and the American consul.

	The above is respectfully submitted by your obedient servant,
JAS. MADISON FRAILEY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Mann, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. sloop St. Louis, to proceed to Cadiz, Spain, in search
of C. S. S. Sumter.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 28, 1862.
	SIR: Referring to your instructions of the 24th instant, the Depart-
ment so far modifies them that your first object will be the pursuit of
the piratical steamer Sumter, which was at Cadiz, Spain, when last
heard from. You will lose no time in reaching that port, unless on
your course you should obtain from merchant vessels, or otherwise,
positive information of the appearance of the Sumter at some other
point, in which case you will go in pursuit of her regardless of the
limits designated as your cruising ground.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
	Commander M. C. MARIN,
Commanding U. S. Sloop St. Loui8, Philadelphia

Page 291

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	291

Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Creesy,
U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship mo, to proceed with dispatch to
Cadiz in search of C. S. S. Sumter.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 28, 1862.
	SIR:	Your orders to the Gulf Squadron, dated yesterday, are hereby
revoked, and you will proceed with all possible dispatch to the coast of
Spain in search of the piratical steamer Sumter. Wheu last heard
from the Sumter was at (Jadiz, to which port you will proceed, unless
you should obtain positive information that she is at some other point
in the East. You will continue the pursuit of her, directing your course
according to the best information you can obtain regarding her move-
nients, and will not abandon it until you learn that she has been cap-
tured or otherwise made way with, or it becomes necessary for you to
return to Boston for supplies, or other urgent reasons.
	Should you be so fortunate as to fall in with her, the Department
relies upon your ability to capture and destroy her or bring her into
port.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
	Acting Volunteer Lient. JOSIAH P. CREESY, U. S. N.,
Commanding U. S. Ship mo, Boston.



Report of Flag-Officer Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. naval forces,
Pacific Ocean, of arrival at Acapulco, Mexico.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Acapulco, Mex., January 28, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you that I arrived here yesterday
in eleven days from Panama. Our passage was delayed by being
under canvas a portion of the time, and the great care necessary in
running our engine to prevent the cracked crank from being entirely
disabled. I enclose you a copy of my instructions to Commander Bis
sell, of the Gyane. I received a letter from him yesterday, dated the
18th January. He informs me that the governor of Panama has
informed the agent of the Panama Railroad Company that he shall
make no attempt to collect the tonnage duties, and that everything is
quiet at Panama and Aspinwall.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully,
CITAS. H. BELL,
Flag-Officer, commanding U. S. Naval Forces, Pacific Ocean.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
[EneloBure.]


U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Panama, January 14, 1862.
	SIR:	As important duties connected with the flagship require her to
be withdrawn for the present from Panama, I shall leave here, for the
protection of American interests, the U. S. ship Gyane, under your
command. You will remain at this anchorage until further orders

Page 292

292	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

and will communicate with me by each steamer, directing your letters
to San Francisco.
	I enclose you a copy of a letter to my predecessor from the Secre-
tary of the Navy, dated June 3, 1861, by which you will be governed,
should any difficulties occur oii shore. You will endeavor at all times
to encourage and promote good feeling w~ith the authorities of New
Granada, and be very particular not to compromise the neutral charac-
ter of the port. Placing every confidence in your good judgment to
perform the duties assigned you,
I am, very respectfully, yours,	CHAS II. BELL,

	Flag- Oflicer, Commanding U. S. Naval Forces, Pacific Ocean.
	Commander S. B. BISSELL, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Cyane, Panama.



Report of Flag. Officer Bell, U. S. Navy, Commanding U. S. naval forces,
Pacific Ocean, of precautions taken against the fitting out of Con-
federate privateers in the ports of South America.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Acapulco, ililiex., January 28, 1862.
	SIR: I have received your communication of January 8, enclosing a
copy of a letter from Mr. C. Ward, jr., to 11. B. Forbes, esq., of Boston,
stating that au attempt would soon be made to fit out a privateer
somewhere along this coast.
	The Wyoming has recently been to Yalparaiso, with orders to touch
at several places along the coast on her way to Panama, and obtain all
the information possible on subjects of this nature. On her return
from this cruise she will take the place of the Saranac, Captain Ritchie,
who will proceed to Panama to relieve the Cyane, Commander Bissell.
	The Cyane will then be sent down the coast as far as Yalparaiso,
with instructions to Commander Bissell to attend to the matter referred
to by Mr. Ward, and all matters connected with this important sub-
ject. By the Saranac being stationed at Panama, where she will have
to remain some time, the Department will have in its power, if thought
advisable, to make the changes recommended in my letter of yester-
day (No. 5). * * *
I have the honor to be,	CHAS. H. BELL,

Flag. Officer.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy.



Letter from Secretary of the Navy to T. B. Satterthwaite, president Board
of Underwriters, New York, relative to the action of the Department in
regard to the C. S. S. Sumter.

NAvY DEP~RTMENT, January 29, 1862.
	I have received your letter of the 27th instant relative to the action
of this Department in the matter of the pirate steamer Sumter. Nearly
a month since the Saratoga was ordered up to Cadiz from the coast of
.~.frica, and the Kearsarge at Portsmouth, N. H., the Lao at Boston, an

Page 293

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	293

the St. Louis at Philadelphia are about to sail in pursuit, having
received their final orders. The Iroquois and the Quaker City are in
the West Indies and the Constellation at Portsmouth is destined for
Gibraltar, but is waiting for a crew. The contractors for machinery for
the small, swift gunboats are in nearly every case months behindhand,
thereby embarrassing the action of the Department in several very
important operations.
I am, respectfully,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	T. B. SATTERTHWAITE,	[Secretary of the Navy.]
President Board of Underwriters, New York.


Report of Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, comnianding U. S. S. Tusca-
rora, relative to C. S. S. Nashville, and transmitting official correspond-
ence on the same subject.
U. S. S. TUSCARORA,
Off Yarmouth, January 29, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you that since my communication
of 24th instant I have had a correspondence with the commanding
officer of the port of Southampton, and of which I send you the enclosed
copies.
	I have not yet replied to the extremely uncourteous note sent me by
Captain Patey on the 28th, but immediately sent an officer with copies
of all the correspondence to our minister at London. It was my inten-
tion to have remained at my anchorage rather than leave it under such
instructions, but from some information conveyed to me last night I
have reason to suspect that the Nashville has also been ordered to leave
the port. I therefore got under way this morning at 8, although it is
blowing a gale of wind, and have dropped down to this place.
	If my surmises are correct as to the same orders having been given
to the Nashville, that vessel will be required to leave to-morrow, when
the tweiity-four hours after my departure will have expired. I accord-
ingly intend going to sea in the morning to try my only and last chance
of obtaining possession of or destroying that ship. Should she escape
me, and I must say the chances are now in her favor, I will at once pro-
ceed to the Mediterranean and search for the Sumter, which is doing
great damage there upon our commerce. I will first, however, take
care to drive the Nashville off this coast.
	The U. S. consul for Southampton has so little tact that I think he
has added somewhat to my difficulties in those waters by imprudent
and unauthorized conversations. I shall not and can not prudently
give him any information of my movements, but will by private note to
our minister communicate my address when changed, as I doubt not I
will be directed to leave this place, and it is at all events my decision
not again to anchor off Southampton, nor do I believe you would wish
me to do so.
	An additional frigate was sent into the waters yesterday to watch
me, but nothing except the belief that the Nashville also was ordered
out would have induced me to leave or give up my ship.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	T. AuGS. CRAVEN,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 294

294	OPERATJONS OF THE CRUISER$UNION.

[Enclosures.]

ADMIRALTY OFFICE,
Southampton, January 26, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to state that I am directed to obtain from you,
as well as from the commander of the Nashville, a written promise that
you will not leave your present position without giving me twenty-four
hours notice of your intention to depart.
I am, sir, your most obedient servant,
CHAS. 0-. E. PATEY,
Additional Captain, IL B. ill. S. Victory,
and Senior Officer at Southampton.
Commander T. AUGS. CRAVEN,
U.	S. S. Tuscarora, Southampton.



U. S. S. TIJSCARORA,
Southampton, January 26, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
this day. I most cheerfully agree to the requirement of giving you
twenty-four hours notice of my intention to depart from this anchor-
age.
I am, sir, most respectfully, your obedient servant,
T.	AUGS. CRAVEN,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Captain CHAS. 0-. E. PATEY,
Senior Naval Officer, Southampton.



U.	S. S. TUSCARORA,
Southampton, January 27, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you that I intend to proceed to sea
to-morrow (Tuesday) at H a. m.
I am, very respectfully, yonr obedient servant,
T. AUGS. CRAVEN,
Commander.
Captain CHAS. 0-. E. PATEY, R. N.,
Senior Naval Officer, Southampton.


ADMIRALTY OFFICE,
Southampton, January 27, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
this days date, acquainting me that you intend to proceed to sea to-
morrow (Tuesday) at 11 a. m. A notification of your intention so to
proceed has been communicated by me to the lieutenant commanding
the Nashville.
I am, sir, your most obedient servant,
CHAS. 0-. E. PATEY,
Additional Captain, 11. iVI. Ship Victory,
and Senior Naval Officer present.
Commander T. Auo-s. CRAVEN, U. S. Navy,
U.	S. S. Tuscarora, Southampton

Page 295

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	295

U.	S. S. TIJSCARORA,
Southampton, January 28, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to advise you that in consequence of the inclem-
ency of the weather, I shall defer my departure until to-morrow (Wed-
nesday), or the first fair day.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T.	AuGs. CRAVEN
Commander, U. S. Navy.
	Captain CITAS. G. E. PATEY,
Senior Naval Officer, Southampton.



ADMIRALTY OFFICE,
Southampton, January 28,186211 a. m.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
this days date advising me that, in consequence, as you allege, of the
inclemency of the weather, you intend to defer your departure until
tomorrow (Wednesday), or till first fair day. Not seeing anything in
the state of the weather to prevent your proceeding to sea in accord-
ance with the intimation expressed in your letter to me yesterday, I
have to request you will lose no time in leaving the Southampton waters
and proceeding to sea accordingly.
	Having received from you a written notification of your intention to
proceed to sea this day at 11 a. m -, I did not deem it necessary to con-
vey to you my instructions which were to desire that you would leave
the Southampton waters and proceed to sea to-day at 12 oclock at noon.
I am, sir, your most obedient servant,
CHAS. 0-. E. PATEY,
Captain, Superintending, Senior Officer.
	Commander T. AUGS. CRAVEN, U. S. Navy,
U., S. S. luscarora, Southampton.




Letter from U. S. minister to England to Commander Craven, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, urging that conflict with the British
authorities be avoided.

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES,
London, January 29, 1862.
	SIR:	I have duly reflected npon the contents of your letter and its
enclosures. I propose to address to her Majestys Government a note,
asking for an explanation of Capt. Pateys letter to you. In the mean
4-
dine I recommeimd it to you not in anyway to put yourself in conflict
with the authorities of the Government, however disagreeable their
action may beto you.
I am, your obedient servant,
CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS.

Commander T. AUGUSTUS CRAVEN,
U.	S. Navy, Southampton

Page 296

296	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUMON.

Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Moore, U. S. ~ commanding
U. S. ship Morning Light, of cruise in the path of ressels from India
and California.
IT. S. SHIP MORNING- LIGHT,
At Sea, January 30, 1862.
	SIR:	Since my last to you under date of December 26, 1861, I have
to report that 1 have been cruising in the tracks of homeward-bound
vessels from India and California, but have seen very few vessels. The
weather since my last report has been remarkably unfavorable, having
a continual succession of rain squalls and baffling winds from the line
to 110 north. I boarded on the 23d instant, latitude 110 iN., loimgi-
tude 400 30 W., the American brig Ada, forty-three days from Monte-
video for Queenstown, Ireland, and on the 27th the British bark Sarah,
seven days from Pernambuco for Liverpool. This a. m. I was in chase
for six hours of a vessel about 14 miles to windward, when the vessel
by which I send this dispatch hove in sight on the lee bow. I shall be
compelled to bear away for New York in a few days, as my water and
coal are rapidly running low. I have but thirty-eight days water and
forty to fifty days fuel, using the latter with great economy. The
health of the men has suffered somewhat from exposure to the wet.
We have six upon the sick list, but no serious cases among them. I
have been compelled ~o purchase a few stores to make umy outfit com-
plete, as the haste with which we were fitted out and dispatched from
~ ew York did not admit of obtaining a proper supply of a few neces-
sary articles. Hoping to have the pleasure of addressing you again
soon,
I remain, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
HENRY T. MOORE,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding.
[Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.]



Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Rogers, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. bark W. G. Anderson, of cruise in the vicinity of the West
Indies, searching for privateers.

U.	S. BARK W. G. ANDERSON,
St. Thomas, January 30, 1862.
	SIR:	Being in the vicinity of St. Thomas, and our water much
reduced, I have under your instructions touched here for information.
Since my last letter to the Navy Department, dated l)ecember ~?4, per
Dutch bark Venus, for New York, we have been cruising in the usual
tracks of West Indiamen, but without any success in meeting priva-
teers.
	Having heard indefinite rumors of a large privateer schooner being
seen off the Hole in the Wall, I have since leaving Key West cruised
a week there, hoping to fall in with her, but though we saw or boarded
about twenty sail (American), none had seen or heard anything of
such a vessel. I infer they are very scarce, as we have spoken,
boarded, or seen ninety-five vessels, and but one proved a Southern
privateer, having sailed up to our arrival here about 11,600 miles.
	We arrived here in good order, and all well, on January 28, at 6 p

Page 297

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	297

in., and are slowly filling the water, in which we experience considera-
ble delay, but trust to report myself ready for sea by to-morrow night.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

Having no dispatches from the Navy Department to acknowledge,
I remain, respectfully, your obedient servant,
W~. C. ROGERS,

Acting Volunteer Lieutenant,

Hon. GIDEON WELLES, Commanding U. S. Bark W. G. Anderson.
Secretary of the Navy of the United States.




Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Craven, commanding
U. S. S. Tuscarora, to give special attention to the search for the C. S. S.
Nashville.
NAvy DEPARTMENT, January 31,1862.

	SIR:	Your letter of the 9th instant, reporting your arrival at South-
ampton, has been received. The Kearsarge and several other vessels
are under orders to search for the Sumter, and, therefore, you can give
your special attention to the Nashville.
Jam, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.
Commander T. A. IXI. CRAVEN,
Commanding U. S. Sloop Tuscarora, Southampton, England.



Order of Flag-Officer Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. naval forces,
Pacific Ocean, to Commander Bissell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Cyane, to proceed to Valparaiso, Chile.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Acapulco, January 31, 1862.
	SIR:	On the arrival of the Saranac, Captain Ritchie who is ordered
to take your station at Panama, you will furnish him with a copy of the
instructions I left with you. You will then, without delay, proceed to
Valparaiso, where you will obtain from our consul, or such other sources
on which you may depend, every information connected with the safety
of our commerce on this coast. On yonr way north you will touch at
Coquirubo, Cobija, Arica, and Pisco, from thence to Callao, where you
will replenish your stores from the storeship, and then l)roceed to
Payta; from thence, if the season is not nnfavorable, you cami touch at
(Auayaquil. You will then proceed to Panama, where instructions will
await you.
	1 do not wish you to confine yourself strictly to the places enumerated,
but should you think it advisable to communicate with the consul or
authorities at any of the intermediate ports, you are at liberty to
deviate so far from your instructions. The object of sending you on
this cruise is principally for the protection of American commerce from
marauders, suspected of fitting out vessels to rob our commerce on the
high seas. L enclose you a topy of a letter sent to me by the Navy
Department from Mr. C. Ward, Jr., of Valparaiso, from whom you ma

Page 298

298	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

obtain some information connected with this matter. I can not suffi.
ciently impress upon your mind the necessity of a courteous intercourse
with the authorities of the various places yo~ visit, and the strict
neutrality to be observed should you meet any vessel bearing the flag
of an enemy or rebel in a friendly port. You will communicate
frequently with me, directing your letters to San Francisco until May
1 next; after that time, to Panama. Should you have information to
communicate to the Government which will not admit of delay, you
will write direct to the Secretaryof the Navy, sending me a copy of your
dispatch. With much reliance on your good judgment and discretion,
and wishing you a pleasant cruise and safe return,
I am, very respectfully, yours,
CHAS. II. BELL
Flag-Officer, Commanding U. S. Naval Forces, Pacific Ocean.
	Commander S. B. BISSELL,
Commanding U. S. S. Cyane, Panama.



Report of Flag- Officer Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. naval forces,
Pacific Ocean, of matters relating to various vessels of his command

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Acapulco, iViex., February 3,1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you that the U. S. S. Narragansett,
Commander Hunt, joined me here on the 30th ultimo from Manzanillo,
from whence she sailed after the departure of the Panama mail
steamer St. Louis, which touched at this port a few days sincewith
upwards of two and a quarter millions of treasure.
	In my communications to the Department, dated January 27 and
28, and numbered 5 and 7, I stated the condition of the Saranac in
regard to her officers. I have since inspected that ship, and, in justice
to Captain iRitchie, will state that whatever difficulties he has or may
have had with his officers his ship is in fine order, both in regard to her
sanitary condition and the perfect drill of her crew. Captain Ritchie
seems to have been indefatigable in his exertions in this respect. With
no regular officers to assist him, he has beei obliged to perform duties
beyond his strength, from which he is now suffering, and he asks to be
relieved from his command, in order that he may retuin to the United
States, where he can obtain such relief as his present situation
requires.
	As I conceived it important to send the Cyane to Yalparaiso as soon
as possible, I have sent the Saranac to Panama to take her place. She
left here on the 1st instant.
	As the Saranac will have to remain at Panama for some time after
this letter reaches the Department, should it be thought advisable to
make the changes in the officers and crew of that ship recommended
in my previous letters, it can be done without any inconvenience to
the service.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully,
CHAS. H. BELL,
	Flag- Officer, Commanding U. S. Naval Forces, Pacific Ocean.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington

Page 299

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	299

Report of Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tusca
rora, relative to C. S. S. Nashville.

U. S. S. TUSCARORA,
Cowes Roads, February 3, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you that by the late rule of pre-
tended neutrality, issued on the 31st January by the Government of
Great Britain, I am effectually driven from these waters; not only am
I not permitted to remain in any port more than twenty-four hours, but
am prohibited taking in coal more than once in three months, being
thus deprived of the ability of cruising on this coast.
My previous letters will have informed you of the several orders,
rapidly following each other, by which I have been, from day to day,
confined within narrower limits, by such stringent rules as gave every
advantage to the privateer Nashville, and wonld have enabled her at
any time, during the last two weeks, to have escaped from Southamp-
ton without a possibility of any opposition, and this final decree of
Earl Russell renders my presence here perfectly idle and useless.
	Most scrupulously desiring to observe even these arbitrary rules of
neutrality, and that I should give no pretext for offense, an dthus throw
the onus on the British authorities, I have adhered to every rule laid
down for my guidance.
	I left the port of Southampton on the 29th in a gale of wind, anchor-
ing off Yarmouth; on the 1st, the gale being over, I went to sea, mimade
a short cruise, and have to-day returned to this anchorage to fill up my
coal, and enable the paymaster to settle the ships bills at Sowthamnp-
ton, which done I see nothing better for me to do than to go in pasuit
of the Sumter, which is still in the neighborhood of Gibraltar, hoping
most earnestly that I may fall in with her. It is my intention to sink
her.
	The Nashville is still at the docks, but feeling no doubt his advantage
over me, I presume the captain of that vessel will depart when he is
ready, having the full protection of the British forces here.
	I have written to Mr. Adams, informing him of my intentions.
Should I not be able to learn any news of the Sumter, I will return to
this coast, and await your further orders at Havre or Hamburg. I
will keep Mr. Adams constantly advised of my address.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
T.	AUG-s. CRAVEN,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.

	Since writing the preceding, the Nashville, under convoy of a British
frigate, passed close by this ship and went to sea, at 5 p. m. During
the time of her passing I was visited by Captain Patey and cautioned
to observe the rule of delaying my departure for twenty-four hours.
	The whole transaction appears to me, sir, to have a strong inipress
of collusion on the part of the authorities to effect the escape of the
privateer. I had no sooner anchored here than my arrival was made
known at Southampton by telegraph; then, and not till then, did the
Nashville leave Southampton. The British squadron communicated
the fact by signal to the Shannon, lying near me, and that ship was at
once got underway to convoy the Nashville out. No consideration
except the observance of good faith on my part prevented my getting
underway also and testing this question at once. Whether I hav

Page 300

300	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

acted judiciously or not, I have solely been guided by a desire to give
no cause for a breach of the peace.
	I told Captain Patey that good faith toward me had not been
observed~ I had been ordered out of the port six days since,butthe
Nashville remained until notified of my anchoring here and then sailed
as above.
	Very respectfully,	T. AUGS. CRAVEN,
	Commander.


Letter from Captain Patey, R. N., Senior Officer at Southampton, to Com-
mander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, relative
to required notice before sailing.
	ADMIRALTY OFFICE,
Southampton, Febrnary 3, 18623:/dO p. m.
	SIR: As you have returned from sea and anchored in Cowes Roads
in the Tuscarora, and as the Nashville has given notice to sail from
Southampton to-day, I am directed to inform you that you are not to
sail again in the ship nuder your command until twenty-four hours after
the departure of the Nashville.
I am, sir, your most obedient servant,
CHAS. G. E. PATEY,
Captain, Superintendent, Senior Officer.
	Commander T. AUG. CRAVEN, U. S. Navy,
U.	S. S. Tuscarora, Off Cowes.
[Endorsement.]

	Delivered at 5:10 by Captain Patey.
T.	AuGs. CRAVEN.


Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Rogers, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. bark W. G. Anderson, of intention to leave St. Thomas, West
Indies, for cruise in search of C. S. steamers Sumter and Nashville.

ST. THOMAS, February 3, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report myself ready for sea and will sail
to-day for our former cruising ground in the Atlantic. We have
experienced some delay in obtaining water, and iiow leave without a
full supply, the party who monopolizes it here declining to give us any
more, except at considerable detention. We are, how ever, but 1,200
gallons short, which does not materially interfere with the length of
our cruise.
	My superior officer, Captain DeCamp, of the Iroquois, now in port,
suggested to me the propriety of not sailing before the arrival of the
English mail, which would bring information of the whereabouts of the
Sumter and Nashville. rphis arrived last night, and I now sail with full
knowledge.
	Referring you to my dispatch of January 30, per American ship
Moutmorenci, from this port, for further details of our cruise,
I remaiw respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. C. ROGERS,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant,
Commanding U. S. bark W. ~L Anderson.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy of the United States

Page 301

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS~-UNION.	301

Order from Secretary of the lVavy to Commander MoDougal, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Wyoming, to proceed from San Franci8co to
Philade~phia via China and Cape of Good Hope.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, February 3, 1862.
	SIR: After refitting the U. S. S. Wyoming at the Mare Island navy
yard you will proceed with her to China, touching at Japan on the
way. You will remain on the coast of China at least two months and
longer than that should you receive information of the appearance
in those waters of armed piratical vessels fitted out by the rebels
now engaged in waging war against the Government of the United
States.
	From China you will continue on to the Atlantic States and enter
the Port of Philadelphia. You will touch at the Cape of Good Hope,
St. Helena, one or more of the principal places on the northeast coast
of South America, and at the important points in your route through
the West Indies. If on your homeward passage you should hear of
privateers or piratical vessels within reach, you can divert from your
course for the purpose of pursuing them.
	Robert H. Pruyn, esq., the recently appointed minister to Japan, is
now in San Francisco and would like a passage to the seat of his
mission in a public vessel. You are authorized to convey him thither
in the Wyoming; but as no allowance is made for the subsistence of
m inisters on board men-of-war, Mr. Pruyn will, as is customary, have
to defray his own expenses while on the passage.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]

	Commander DAVID MCDOUGAL
Commanding U. S. S. Wyomi~g, San Francisco, Cat.





Report of Commander Ridgely, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Santiago
de Cuba, of cruise from January 18 to February 5, 1862, transmitting
information received from the consul-general at Havana, Cuba.

U.	S. S. SANTIAGO DE CUBA,
Key West, Fla., February 5, 1862.
	SIR: 1 wrote to the Department from Havana, January 17. The next
day 1 sailed for Matanzas, Cuba, where Ireceived the enclosed letter from
Consul-General Shufeldt. Considering the information contained in the
letterof great public importance, I touched at Key West to intercept some
vessel going to Ship Island. Not finding any Vessel about leaving, I sailed
for the Southwest Pass, and arrived there in fifty-six hours. I gave a
copy of the consul-generals letter to Captain Bailey, of the Colorado, the
commanding officer of the Vincennes, off the Northeast Pass, and to Com-
mander Steliwagen, off Pass ~ lOutre, and then left for Ship Island to
give the communication to Flag-Officer McKean.
	There were more provisions at Ship Island than could be properly
taken care of, and the flag-officcr requested me to take in as much as I
could stow conveniently and land them at Key West. I took on boar

Page 302

302	OPERATLONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

500 barrels and delivered them to th~ naval storekeeper at this place,
and shall remain here until I hear from Consul-General Shufeldt, at
Havana.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
DANL. B. IRIDGELY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.

	Hon. 0-. WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

	P.	S.I enclose a copy of the communication referred to above,
received from the consul at Havana.


[Enclosure.]


U.	S. CONITLATE-GENERAL,
llarana, January 22, 1862.
	SIR: The information I herewith transmit you is of sufficient impor-
tance, I think, to warrant you in conveying it at once to Flag-Officer
McKean. I can not develop the source from which I received it, but I
deem it entirely credible.

NEW ORLEANS, January 18, 1862.
	There were eight steamers bound to Havana, but the Government seized all but
the Tennes8ee. However, I think some will be released. The others were the tow-
boats Whitney, Day, and Webb; steamers Atlantic, Florida, Jllatagorda, and America.
	The Day will draw about 6 feet loaded. The captain had an idea that upon his
return he could run into St. Josephs, lila., and cart his cargo over to Apalachicola.
All of these vessels can come out of the southeast bar, where 11 feet draft can pass
over. It is a very narrow channel, the latter part right between the breakers. The
pilots take small boats with lights, anchor them upon the breakers, and then take
the vessel out between. The Tennessee can only pass out of Southwest Pass or
Pass ~ lOutre, as she will draw 161 feet water. I think a demonstration will be
made by the fleet of gunboats now ready and getting ready. The Vanderbilt went into
the Sabine with her cargo, and will return from there, probably on her way here now.
The Manassas went down to try her powers upon the fleet on the 1st January and
was aground over twelve hours. Had the fleet made any demonstration to approach
her she could have been destroyed.
	The Confederate fleet at New Orleans are the McRae, four32-pounders, one 9-inch shell
gun; Ivy, one rifle 30-pounder; Jack8on, two 8-inch shell; Livingston, two ritle 30-pound-
ers, four shell guns; Mason, five guns forward, three aft; Slidell, five guns forward,
three aft; Manassas, now in dock repairing.
	There are a brig and two schooners lying below Fort Jackson, which might be
cut out.

	You will perceive that by sailing immediately you may be able to
capture the Vanderbilt, now expected here, and give to Flag-Officer
McKean such information as will prevent the exit of the other vessels
mentioned through the Southeast Pass.
	I wrote this morning in reference to the Vanderbilt, but have obtained
this more recent and reliable information. If you conclude to sail,
please inform Mr. Chandler that you are carrying out the intentions of
this letter, but do not divulge its contents to anyone.
I am, sir, truly, your obedient servant,
R.	W. SHUFELDT,

Consul- General.

	Commander D. B. BIDGELY,
Commanding Steamer Santiago de Cuba

Page 303

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	303

Report of Commander Dc Camp, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Iro-
quois, of return to St. Thomas, West Indies, after two weeks cruising.

U.	S. S. IROQUOIS,
St. Thomas, West Indies, February 8,1862.
	Sin:	I have the honor to report to the Department the arrival of
this ship under my command at this place, after a cruise of two weeks
to the eastward, touching at St. Pierre twice, Barbados twice, and at
the island of Tobago, and Trinidad. Learning nothing of importance
from our consuls at either of these places, I steamed to the eastward
of Barbados as far as the track of homeward-bound vessels from China
and the Pacific, and then shaped our course to the northward as far as
the French Islands, looking into the bay of Fort Royal, Martinique, then
bore away for St. Thomas.
	I received a visit from Commander Frailey, of the Quaker City, at
St. Pierre on the 18th ultirno, and I recommended him to remain in
that vicinity as long as possible, as I am convinced that should there
be any rebel privateers cruising in the West Indies, they would be
better received at those islands than at other places, and from their
position and the general open character of those harbors, escape from
our cruisers would be more certain than from most harbors in thes seas.
	The U. S. bark Win. U. Anderson, Captain Rogers, sailed from here
the 4th instant to cruise north of this island.
	Today, while cruising off the harbor of St. Thomas we fell in with
the bark George B. Hunt, Captain Woodbury, of Portland,Me., dismasted
in a gale, Jannary 28, in longitude 610 W., latitude 350 N. Took her
in tow, and brought her into port. By the 13th instant, I purpose
leaving here on a cruise, the particulars of which will be made known
to the l)epartment before our departure.
I am, sir, most respectfully, your obedient servant,
	JOHN DECAMP,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	~iJommander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary ~t the Navy, Washington City, D. C.
	P. S.The U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp anchored in this harbor
to-day, February 9, from Dominica.
	J. DEC.


Report of Flag-Officer Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. naval forces,
Pac~jmc Ocean, of intended departure for San Francisco, transmitting
copies of instructions to commanding officers of U. S. S. Wyoming and
St. Marys.
U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Acapulco, February 10, 1862.
	Sin: I respectfully enclose you copies of instructions sent to Com-
mander MeDougal of the Wyoming and Commander Middleton of the
St. Marys.
	I shall leave here to-morrow for San Francisco. The Narragansett
is now here, but will leave in a day or two for a cruise up the coast as
far north as San Blas.
1 have the honor to be, very respectfully,
CHAS. H. BELL,
Flag-Officer, Gommanding U. S. Naval Forces, Pacific Ocean.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington

Page 304

	30-I	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		             [Enclosures.1

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Acapulco, February 4, 18G2.
	SIR: After filling up your provisions, taking ou board as much as
you can conveniently stow, you will proceed in the U. S. ship St. Marys,
under your command, to the vicinity of Cape Sau Lucas, Lower Cali-
fornia; oii your way dowu you will look into [Santa] Maria and Magda-
lena bays, keeping as close to the shore, on your way to Cape Sa;i
Lucas, as safety will allow. You will then cross the Gnlf of California
and touch in at Mazatlan and San Blas. You will consider your crilis-
ing ground as extending from [Santa] Maria Bay, California, to Cape
Corrientes, Mexico, in latidude 200 25 uorth. As it is strongly sns-
l)C~:tCd that vessels may be fitted out by the traitors who arc in arms
against our Government, for the ~ll~~O5C of intercepting the mail
steamers from Sau Francisco to Panama, you must exercisc the utmost
vigilance in the examination of every vessel you may encounter, and
endeavor to speak the steamers down from San Francisco. At the end
of each month you may extend your cruising ground as far as Man-
zanillo, where your letters will be sent.
	In order to render the small naval force now on this station effectual
for the purposes just stated, the vessels composing the squadron must
be kept at sea as much as possible. You will therefore remain in the
ditfrrent ports you visit only a snificient time to fill up your wood and
water and to obtain such supplies of fresh provisions as will keep yonr
crew in good health. In your visits to the various ports of Lower Cal-
ifornia you will endeavor to obtain the most reliable information in
regard to the attempts on the part of the seceding traitors to obtain
possession of that country.
	You will be pleased to write to me by every opportunity, directing
your letters to San Francisco.
I am, very respectfully, yours,
CHAS. II. BELL,
Flag- Officer, Commanding U. S. Naval Forces, Pacific Ocean.
Commander EDWARD MIDDLETON,

Commanding U. S. ship St. Marys, San Francisco.



U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Acapulco, February 6,1862.
	SIR:	On your arrival at Acapulco, you will, with the U. S. S. Wyo-
ming under your command, relieve the Narragansett, now stationed on
this part of the coast. You will consider your cruising ground to
extend to San Blas, but should you receive information which would
make it advisable to have the presence of an armed vessel higher up
the gulf, you are authorized to extend yonr limit in that direction.
	The mail steamers from San Francisco to Panama will touch at Man-
zanillo on or about the 27th of each month. As one of them has on
board at all times a large amount of treasure, it is important that you
shonld be at that point on their arrival. Manzanillo, I am informed,
has no harbor defenses, and it is here that an attempt might be made
to seize the ships with treasnre. You will therefore endeavor to be off
tL t port at the time tIme steamer arrives, and accompany her down to
Acapulco, the eastern limit of your cruising gronnd

Page 305

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	305

	As it is strongly suspected that privateers may be fitted out along
this coast by the traitors now in arms against our Government, you
will exercise the utmost vigilance iii examining every vessel you may
suspect of being engaged in that business. To render the small naval
force now on this station effectual, the vessels composing the squadon
should be kept at sea as much as possible. You will therefore remain
in port only a sufficient time to replenish your fuel, etc., and to obtain
such supplies of fresh provisions as may be necessary to preserve the
health of your crew.
	You must endeavor to economize your coal, so expei sive an article
on this coast, by using your sails as much as possible; by banking up
your fires, when circumstances will admit, and vigilance on the part of
the chief engineer at least one-third of the fuel uoxv expended could
be saved.
	You will be pleased to communicate with me at least twice a month,
directing your letters to San Francisco.
I am, very respectfully, yours,
CHAS. H. BELL,
Flag- Officer, Commanding U. S. Naval Forces Pac
	Commander D. MCDOUGAL,	,	ific Ocean.
Commanding U. S. S. Wyoming, Acapulco.


Letter from U. S. consul at Gibraltar to Secretary of the Navy, stating
that the authorities at that port decline to birnish coal to the C. S. S.
Sumter.
CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES,
Gibraltar, February 12, 1862.
	SIR: I beg to inform you of the arrival this day of the U. S. S. Tus-
carora.
	As the official dispatch from Earl Russell to the lords commissioners
of the admiralty, laying down certain rules with regard to United
States vessels of war and Southern cruisers, has been published in this
garrison, and the same is now in force, Captain Craven proposes to
proceed with the Tuscarora to Algeciras either tomorrow evening or the
following day, where he will endeavor to replenish his stock of coal.
	The steamer Sumter remains in this port. Private coal companies
refuse to sell her coal; her commander has applied to the British author-
ities for a supply, but they have refused.
I hear they have telegraphed to the home 0-overment on the subject.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
HORATIO J. SPRAGUE, U. S. Consul.
The SECRETARY OF THE NAVY OF THE U. S. OF AMERICA,
Washingtou City.


Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Rogers, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. bark W. G. Anderson, of cruise in search of blockade runners
rn rncrnmty of West Indies.
U. S. BARK W. G. ANDERSON,
Off the Virgin Passage, February 12, 1862.
	SIR: I avail myself of a homeward-bound schooner, just out from St.
Thomas, to report the W. G. Anderson as having been cruising off this
passage the past seven days in the hope of catching the Florida bark
American Eagle, which vessel intended, when we sailed from St. Thomas,
to run for some American port, regardless of cruisers.
123A.-2

Page 306

306	OPERATIONS OP THR gRUlSERSUNTOTh

	There was also another bark, the Angela Brewer (owned three-six-
teenths in Mobile), lying in port, with some intention of sailing.
	I have since ascertained that the American Eagle left a few nights
since, and has probably gone direct to New York, the captain stating
that although she has a Southern register, she is really owned by
Northern creditors, whom he expects to benefit by being condemned
in New York. I shall therefore shift our cruising ground, steering
along westerly in our usual track.
I have the honor to be, respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. (15. ROGERS,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant,
Commanding U. S. Bark W. U. Anderson.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy of the United States.


Report of Commander Frailey, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Quaker
City, of cruise in search of C. S. S. Sumter.
U.	S. S. QUAKER CITY,
St. Thomas, West Indies, February 18, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my return here this day from a cruise
to the eastward, during which time I visited the port of St. Pierre,
Martinique, aud there received information from a colored man that the
rebel steamer Sumter was in Trinity ~La Trinit~] Bay, on the north-
east side of the island, taking in coal, and to which port I proceeded
early on the following morning; but, to my regret, learned on my arri-
val off the harbor that the report was without foundation. I steamed
back to St. Pierre and thence towards Barbados, St. Yincent, St. Lucia,
and Dominica, looking in all the bays which abound among those
islands, and stopping a reasonable period in the harbors of Bridgetown,
Kingston, Castries, Rosean, and Prince Rupert Bay, taking in, at the
latter port, a quantity of water without expense and with little trouble,
three rivers famishing a most abundant supply.
*
	*	*	*	*	*	*
	I beg leave to further report that while at anchor in Rosean, Island
of iDominica, the lieutenant-governor, Thomas Price, expressed a desire
to visit Prince Rupert Bay, situated some 20 miles to the north, ovi the
same island, and to which I was bound. To this request of Lieutenant-
Governor Price I immediately complied, landing him at Prince Rupert
in a couple of hours after our departure from Rosean. He expressed
himself in grateful terms for the kindness extended to him.
	During our absence from St. Thomas not a single vessel was seen by
us on the ocean.
I am, sir, very respectfully, etc., your obedient servant,
	JAS. MADISON FRAILEY,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander DeCamp, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Iro.
quois, of affairs in general in the vicinity of the West Indies.
U.	S. S. IROQUOIS,
St. Thomas, February 18, 1862.
	SIR: Having taken on board this ship all the coal we had stored at
this place (39 tons), we shall go to sea to-morrow and cruise southwar

Page 307

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	307

as far as La Guayra and Cura~ao. A recent revolution in Venezuela
induces me to touch at the former place in view of communicating
with our minister at Caracas, and my object in calling at Cura~ao is
merely to supply this ship with coal, after which we will return to this
island and hold ourselves ready to act as may seem best calculated to
insure the safety of our commerce in the West Indies.
	1 can not learn that there are any rebel armed vessels in these waters;
nevertheless we will keep a sharp lookout, and should any make their
appearance within the limit of our station I trust to give a satisfactory
account of them. As I informed the Department in a former letter, I
am convinced that the French Windward Islands will form the base of
their operations, and either the Quaker City or this ship will be kept in
that vicinity.
	In my letter of instructions from the Department no mention is
made of any other vessels of our squadrou in these seas than the
Iroquois and Quaker City. I therefore concluded that it was not con-
templated that I exercise any authority (except absolutely necessary)
over either the Shepherd Knapp or the Win. U. Anderson. The Shepherd
Knapp arrived here on the 9th instant from Prince Eupert Bay,
Dominica, and is still in port.
	In view of the Sumters return to the West Indies, it is all essential
that a cruiser be stationed to the northeast of the Anegada passage,
and as this region is embraced in the cruising ground marked out by
the Department for the Shepherd Knapp, I shall direct Captain
Eytinge to proceed at once to his station, and I trust that the. Depart-
ment will approve of my action in the matter. At the solicitation of
Captain Rogers I inspected the Win. U. Anderson and found her in all
respects ready for service, clean, and in good condition.
	The mail steamer has this moment arrived from England, bringing
the intelligence that hereafter vessels of war of the United States are
only to be permitted to enter their ports under certain restrictions.
The Iroquois will not be subjected to any such disgraceful conditions, and.
I anxiously hope to hear from the Department upon the subject. As
yet we are treated with all respect in this island, and it will be my
endeavor to preserve the good will of these people.
	I have found it necessary to send two sick men to the Shepherd Knapp
for passage to the United States whenever she may return, and the
necessary papers in the case are forwarded to the Department.
I have the honor to be, most respectfully, your obebient servant,
JOHN DECAMP,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Captain Powell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S.frigate Potomac,
relative to the movements of the allied powers in Mexico.

U. S. FRIGATE POTOMAC,
Off Vera C~ruz, February 19, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that I anchored this ship, under my
command, near Green Island on the afternoon of the 14th instant, from
the Southwest Pass, where 1 touched to fill up our water.
My instructions from the flag-officer commanding the naval forces i

Page 308

308	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

the Gulf of Mexico simply ordered me to come here, to place myself in
communication with our minister in the City of Mexico, and to corre-
spond directly with the Navy Department. I have written to Mr.
Corwin accordingly, and have had a satisfactory interview with our
consul at Vera Cruz. A courier will be sent oft to the City of Mexico
speedily and Mr. Corwin will be informed of our arrival.
	The superior officers of the united forces are all living in the city, so
that I had not the pleasure of seeing either the English, French, or
Spanish chiefs when I visited their ships on the 17th, but I was received
with great politeness by the commanding officers, and with marks of
friendly consideration from each.
	Yesterday I had a friendly visit from Captains Osborne, of the Done-
gal, and Caidwell, of the ]Jiliersey, who told me in conversation that they
were about to leave and were all going home. They spoke as if
their duties and business in this quarter had [ended or was about to
end. They also assured me that the combined forces would certainly
march for the interior at an early day. The two statements are not
easily reconciled unless, indeed, a small naval force is intended to be
left to look after the small land force which constitutes the English
contingent now on shore.
	The British naval force now before Vera Cruz is numerous and pow-
erful, consisting of Sans Pareil and Donegal, screw ships of the line,
Mersey, and an unknown 50 which came iii this morning, Ariadne, Chal-
lenger, and some ten others of inferior ratings, all screw ships. The
French force is less, but the screw line-of-battle ship Massena at the
head of them. The Spanish force is less in numbers and of smaller
vessels.
	As you will have learned from other sources, the harmony of the
united forces is not of the most earnest character; the English are dis-
gusted, and if my information as above be accurate are about to with-
draw the principal naval forces.
	The climate begins to tell upon the strangers. The Spanish force
has been already reduced by sickness and death bordering upon 2,000
men; the French land forces are not healthy; the English do better,
but their sick list is already large, and two seamen have died in the
last two days from yellow fever.
	I shall write by the British mail steamer via Havana, expected to
arrive here on the 26th, and have the honor to be,
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[L. M. POWELL,J
Captain.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Report of Acting Volunteer 1~ieutenant Bytinge, U. S. Navy, commanding
U.	S. ship Shepherd Knapp, of extended cruise in search of C. S. S.
Sumter.
U.	S. Sui~ SHEPHERD KNAPP,
St. Thomas, February 19, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to apprise you of the touching at this port of
the ship nuder my command, after procuring her water at Prince Ilupert
Ba~, Dominica. The Shepherd Knapp has now a supply for the rest of
her cruise. I have made the entire circuit of the West India Isle

Page 309

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	309

three several times, going as far to eastward as the Leeward Islands,
as far to the westward as Ahaco nearly, and nearly as far north as
Bermuda. No other ship or steamer has cruised the same distance and
kept so continually in the waters of the &#38; tmter. I have used every
effort to fall in with the pirate and hope to take him yet, for I feel
assured he will return to this station if he escapes from the Mediter-
ranean. I advised you by letter, duplicated to Captain Fox, two
months since that he would reach the Mediterranean and the late news
gives a verification to my belief. I wish, earnestly wish, that I might
have received orders to have pursued him there, and called at the
consulate here hoping to have dispatches warranting my wish. I have
waited the last few days the arrival of the mail steamer here, bnt she
is behind time, and npon consultation with my senior officers here,
Captain DeCamp and Captain Frailey, in the Iroquois and Quaker
City, I have determined to proceed at once to sea to cruise as hereto-
fore.
	The Shepherd Knapp was to-day inspected by the above-named gen-
tlemen, who pronounced her thoroughly efficient and her batteries in
fine condition. I have labored hard day and night to make her a per-
fect ship and I am happy to state I am fully repaid by the compliments
of my senior officers.
	For the last hundred and ten days I have spoken, boarded, examined,
and searched every vessel I have seen, giving aid, comfort, and convoy
to loyal ships, and narrowly watching all of doubtful character, and I
assure you I prefer to die at my guns rather than return while my
country is in danger. If any vessels are to be sent to the Mediterranean
after the pirate will not the Department honor me by their order to
still further pursue the traitor?
	I am exceedingly familiar with the Mediterranean, having been in
that sea constantly for eight years; and speaking all the foreign lan-
guages, together with my knowledge of all the principal people of every
city from Gibraltar to Trieste, would give me signal advantages which
might redound to my success in sighting and engaging the Sumter or
other privateers in that sea.
	I hope the Department will nol think me de trop in thus urging a
claim for distinction, but I am re~ d at any momeut to sacrifice mylife
to sustain my countrys honor, and I earnestly hope I may be awarded
any post of danger wTorthy an honest seamans life. I shall cruise to
the eastward for a month, and then, agreeable to order received from
Captain DeCamp, after having looked in at ports of Basse Terre,
C nadeloupe, and St. Pierre, Martinique, without anchoring, will return,
touching here for reply and further instructions from your honorable
body. My ship was provisioned for six months; we have nearly three
mouths on board. Officers and crew all well.
	I beg the Department to dispatch orders for this ship forthwith to
St. Thomas, and I will send in may boat for the same in about thirty or
forty days.
	The European news is embarrassing and I urgently beg further
instructions from my Government, and trusting that a kind Provi-
dence may watch over and protect my country,
I am, dear sir, respectfully, yours,
HENRY S. EYTINGE,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, U. S. Navy,

Hon. G. V. Fox,	Commanding U. S. Ship Shepherd Knapp.
Assistant Secretary of the Navy

Page 310

310	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS---UNION.

Seizure of Messrs. Myers and Tunstall at Tangier, Morocco, February 19,
1862.

Report of Captain Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, relative to arrest at
Tangier, by the U. S. consul, of Messrs. Myers and Tunstall, and their subsequent disposition.


U.	S. S. TUSOAROHA,
Off Algeciras, March 1, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report to you that, on the 22d of February,
I received from the U. S. consul at Tangier, James DeLong, esq., a
notification that he had apprehended at that place Mr. Tunstall, late
U. S. consul at Cadiz, and a Mr. Myers, the parser of the pirate Sum-
ter, lying at Gibraltar; he stated that these persons were on their way
to Cadiz to purchase coal for the Sumter.
	On investigating the question of jurisdiction, I was satisfied that
Mr. DeLong had authority to arrest these persons; the governor of
Tangier furnished him with a guard, and thus recognized the power of
the consul. It was impossible for me to relax my watch on the Sumter,
but on the arrival here on the 25th of the mo, I ordered that vessel to
Tangier to take on board the prisoners and bring them to this place.
The mo, having performed this service, returned here on the 27th
	I communicated to the governor of this town the fact of the presence
of the ship in these waters, with prisoners on board; and also that, to
avoid complaint on the part of the enemies of the United States, I had
ordered the mo to sea.
	My orders to Acting Lieutenant Commanding Creesy were to cruise
in the vicinity until he should fall in with a homeward-bound vessel, on
board of which he is directed to place the prisoners, for passage to the
United States, to be surrendered to the proper authorities.
I have the honor to be, sir,
T. AUGS. CRAVEN,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Letter from the U. S. consul at Tangier to Captain Craven, U. S Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Tuscarora, announcing arrest of Messrs. Myers and Tunstall.

CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES,
Tangier, February 21,1862.
	SIR: Have learned that two secessionists landed here yesterday
from a merchant French steamer, Yule de Malaga, proceeding from
Gibraltar on their route to Cadiz. One of them I am informed, from
undoubted authority, is a lieutenant of the pirate Sumter; the other,
Mr. Tunstall, has been acting as U. S. consul at Cadiz up to some time
last summer, both of whom are commissioned to purchase coal at Cadiz
to supply the Sumter, by her captain.
	This state of facts being presented to me, together with other relia.
ble information in reference to the disloyalty of these men to the Fed-
eral Government, induced me to take the necessary steps for their
arrest, which I have done, and they are now held as prisoners in the U.
S. consulate at this place. I now make the request that you come
here at your earliest convenience possible, so that I may deliver the said
Tunstall and Lieutenant John Smith, alias H. Myers, into your custody

Page 311

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	311

to be conveyed by you to the United States on your return, and on your
arrival there to be placed by you under the proper authority of the
Federal Government of 1~ie United States of America, to be dealt with
according to law, and this shall be your warrant for so doing.
	Given under my hand and the seal of the U. S. consulate at Tangier,
Morocco, aforesaid, the day and year above written.
	[SEAL.]	JAMES DE LONG,
	U. S. ConsUl.

	COMMANDER OF THE U. S. SLOOP OF WAR TUSCARORA.





Letter from U. S. consul at Tangier to Captain Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Tuscarora, relative to prisoners Myers and Tunstall, and asking for Federal man-of-war
in bay.

CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES,
Tangier, February 24, 1862.
	SIR: I have been expecting you daily since the 20th instant, but
suppose you can not leave the Sumter. I have the united good will of
the British minister here and all the consular corps, as well as the
Moorish authorities. The first parties named are, of course, strictly
neutral, but at the same time I am very unpleasantly situated. My
guards are all Moors and the piisoners have tried several times to
bribe them. First, they offered a valuable gold watch and $ too in
gold. This is very tempting to semi-barbarians. They finally offered
to secure to them $5,000 to assist them in making their escape. I had
to put them in irons, and Myers got a case knife and sawed off the
rivets, and got the irons off and jumped oat of the second story of the
consulate, but fortunately into the consulate lot. He then got over
the wall into the house of a Moor and was again arrested and taken
back to his room, and the number of guards increased.
	I understand that there is a bitter feeling against you and myself in
Gibraltar; against me for what I have done in this matter, and against
you for some remarks you seem to have made. I have never had the
honor to know you, but you will please excuse me for advising you to
keep cool and calm and give no offense to anyone; it is hard to do so,
for the English, a great many of them, are extremely insulting to the
Federals, and are nearly all on the side of the rebels. I am informed
that a Federal man-of-war arrived at Cadiz ou the 19th instant, and if
you can not come after these men, will you dome the favor to telegraph
to the captain of that man-of-war to come here immediately. It may
be that the rebel portion of Europeans might combine with the Moors
to raise a mob and try to have these men released. The captain of the
Sumter is trying to get up a feeling in his favor for that purpose in
Gibraltar, so by all means these persons should be placed on board of
a Federal man-of-war as soon as possible, and I trust you will consider
the very disagreeable position I am in and release me as soon as
possible. Myers is a desperate man. He was commissioned in the
Federal Navy on the 21st day of June, 1854, as paymaster with the
rank of lieutenant, and is a citizen of the State of Georgia. About
this there can be no possible doubt; I found out his name and his
residence through Tunstall, and then referred to the U. S. Navy
Register, on page 46, for the year 1861, and find Henry Myers as
paymaster, etc., as above stated

Page 312

312	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	Excuse any mistake in my letter, as I write in great haste to get it
ready for the boat about to leave.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedie~t servant,
JAMES DELONG,
U.	S. Consul.
COMMANDER OF THE TUSCARORA.

	P.	S.I learned last evening that there is a secret movement on
foot. The captain of the Sumter is making many false representations
to accomplish some deep plot. I want the presence of a Federal
man-of-war in the bay.
J.	DEL.


Order from Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, to Acting Volun-
teer Lieutenant 3. P. Creesy, commanding U. S. ship mo, to receive Confederate prisoners
Myers and Tu.ustall.

U. S. S. TUSCARORA,
Off Algeciras, February 25, 1862.
	SIR:	You will proceed with the mo under your command to Tan-
gier. On reaching that place you will confer with the U. S. consul, Jas.
DeLong, with reference to the two rebel prisoners held by him, and
deliver to him the accompanying letter. The consul will deliver to you
the prisoners, whom you will receive on board and bring to this place
for further instructions.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
T.	AUGS. CRAVEN,
Commander.
Lieutenant Commanding JOSIAH P. CREESY,
U.	S. Ship ho.

Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Creesy, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship mo, relative
to arrest of Messrs. Myers and Tunstall at Tangier, and subsequent disposition of prisoners.

U.	S. SHIP INO, April 12, 1862.
	SIR:	The above eommunication* must have been received by Captain
Craven the next day (21st) [22d], and on the 22d Captain Craven sent
telegram to Mr. Eggleston at Cadiz asking why the Leo did not come
up. The consul, Mr. Eggleston, returned answer, The mo is a sail-
ing ship, and will leave the first wind. The next morning the ho
sailed, and arrived up at 3 a. m. of the 24th, twenty-onehours from Cadiz,
against half a gale of wind from the eastward, going in with very dark
weather. Burned two white and two red lights and sent up three
rockets for the purpose of getting him to indicate to me his position,
that I might anchor near him; but no notice was t~ ~e~t of my signals, and
I was obliged to find my way in in the dark as beK I could; however, I
was fortunate enough to anchor quite near him, and at daylight, sails
being furled, I ordered the ships numbers hoisted, when he responded
by hoisting two numbers with cornet over, and which F did not under-
stand, consequently, having been up all nightin fact, had not left the
deck for ten minutes from the time of getting nuder way at CadizJ
went and turned in, with the hope of getting some sleep, bnt a half an
hour after an officer was on board from the Tuscarora. I got up, gave
him some newspapers, but asked no questions of the officer, which I
*See p. 310

Page 313

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	313

might have done had he not been recalled by signal while selecting
some papers for him. Alter this got breakfast and prepared to go on
board the Tuscarora and on shore. At 11 oclock went on board.. Cap.
tam Craven met me on deck and invited me below intr
his son, who is, I believe, his clerk.	oduced me to
After a few preliminary remarks, he asked me if I had brought my
papers with me. I replied I brought none, when he intimated I ought
to have done so. Told him as a matter of conrtesy I might have done
so, but did not feel that there was any obligation about it, as my
instructions were specific; still I had no objection to his seeing them.
Why, said he, I could send you to Rio de Janeho if I chose.
Well, said I, perhaps that is so. Not wishing to argue any point
with him, turned the conversation by asking what signal it was that
he had made in the morning. He replied, I do not know, as I have
no books. This struck inc as being very strange, his having the sig-
nals and not the books; however, I made no ftirther allusion to it, but
dropped the subject, when he commenced conversation by informing
me that he had sent a telegram to Mr. Eggleston (to have me remain
at Cadiz) yesterday, 23d. Told him [I] should not have been satisfied
short of a sight of the &#38; imter. He said he was very sorry I came up,
as he did not want those of that vessel to see the ship.
	No allusion was made to the prisoners at Tangier during this inter-
view. (Wind from eastward, and liable to change at any moment, when
I could not have gone to Tangier with westerly wind.) This was the
suiii and substance of the sanie. I next went on shore; was met by
Mr. Robert Foreman, acting as the vice-consul, who introduced himself
to me as the vice-consul. As such, I requested that he should go
with and present me to the governor, He did so, and Ihadavery
agreeable interview, after which he accompanied me on board the
admirals ship to make my respects to him, and here, too, I was received
with the greatest kindness and consideration. This over, I returned
to my ship, and found no time to put foot upon the soil of Algeciras
afterwards. The next day, at about 3 oclock p. in., Captain Craven
made his first call on board the mo. I received him kindly amid had a
pleasant iiterview, in the course of which asked what it was about two
prisoners said to have been arrested by the consul at Tangier. He
looked enquiringly at me, and made some apparently evasive remark,
such as, I believe there were two men arrested there. I said to him
that I inferred from his dispatch (of the 22d to Mr. Eggleston) that it
was imnl)ortant 1 should be here, otherwise should have stopped there
on my way up. (Here I would ask why he did not advise my doing so on
my way up, when asking why the mo did not come up, and why should
he telegraph to Mr. Eggleston on the 23d to have me remain at Cadiz ~
The reason given by him for this move and herein expressed would
hardly appear to be. sufficient, under the circumstances.) Had I been
passing through the straits in the daytime, should have called there
upon the information I had already obtained by rumor at Cadiz. At
this point the conversation changed by his asking how much provision
I had on board. I informed him I had three or four months provisions,
when he said he had only sufficient for a fortnight, and talked in such
a way as to leave me with the impression that he wished me to negoti-
ate for provisions for him, as he was not allowed to even send his boat to
Gibraltar, owing to his having made himself obnoxious, as he had
informed me verbally, by threatening under certain circumstances (cir-
cumstances not explained) to fire into one of their men-of-war and let
-	the Government settle it afterwards. About this time Captain Crave

Page 314

314	OPERATIONS OF TifE CRUiSERSUNION.

returned to his ship and was back again before 4 oclock with letter of
instructions, No. 2,* of this correspondence, and a letter to James De-
Long, esq., U. S. consul at Tangier, Morocco, copy of which has been
forwarded the Department.
	On receipt of these documents, Captain Craven having informed me
that he had a mission of diplomacy to send me upon, I informed him I
was most happy in the prospect of making myself useful, and should
proceed to sea the moment there was sufficient wind to get underway.
Made all preparations, hove short, and set all sail. Previous to this,
however, received an anchor from the Tuscarora, which came alongside
while preparing to leave. Got underway at dark, but wind failing,
anchored in a few moments afterwards. At 2:30 a. m. of 26th, civil
time, light breeze sprung up fortunately from E. N. E., made one stretch
to the northward, tacked ship, and proceeded to Tangier, anchoring in
that harbor at 7 a. in., in 10 fathoms water, letting go two anchors with
50 fathoms on each chain, wind blowing hard from the eastward. About
9 a. m. the health officer came alongside; took my bill of health, saying
I was at liberty to go on shore. About 10 oclock proceeded to the
landing, and to the U.S. consulate, accompanied by my paymaster, Mr.
Train, Dr. Burge, and Mr. Turner (boat officer), masters mate. Here
we niet Mr. DeLong, in a state of great excitement, aiid oveijoyedat
seeing the long-looked-for relief. After relating the story of the arrest
of the pirates, and complaining bitterly of the omission of Captain
Craven tonotice his (consuls) letters, Mr. DeLong and myself proceeded
to the residence of the , and had a pleasant interview with the
governor. I informed him I should be glad to exchange the usual
national civilities with him in the way of a salute. He requested to
know at what hour, and I appointed 1 oclock, to which he assented, and
at which time it came off, and then allusion was made to the object of
my visit. On being made acquainted with it he offered no objection,
but seemed to acquiesce in the movement.
	After alluding to the efforts made, and protests against such pro-
ceedings by the captain of the Sumter and his emissaries, feeling that
all was right, we returned to the consulate, where, in a very short time,
an immense gathering of people had surrounded the consulate build-
ings, and the first notice of it was the calling out of Mr. DeLong by
one of his servants. A minute or two only had elapsed when Mr.
DeLong returned, exclaiming: For Gods sake, gentlemen, what shall
we do; there is a mob surrounding the building to prevent the prison-
ers being removed. At this, a voluntary move was made by all to rush
to the door and see what was up. On reaching the same Mr. DeLong,
my officers, and self made our way into the court leading to the con-
salate, cansing the mob to fall back, the same being very clamorous for
the liberation of the two prisoners. Some of them, and one in particu-
lar, who spoke English fluently and appeared to be one of the principal
leaders of the mob, called loudly for the captain. On being informed
who that person was, he addressed himself to me in a very boisterous
manner, saying there were 200 men present ready to sign a paper that
those prisoners should not be taken away from Tangier. I informed
them that they would go, nevertheless. Libertad seemed to be the
watchword with them. We then returned to the consulate, where I
wrote a note and sent on board for 30 men, to be accompanied by my
first and second officers, and armed with revolvers and cutlasses,
bringing at the same time a sufficient number of pistols for the use of
those already on shore.
*SOe p. 312

Page 315

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	315

	This over, the men and officers came on shore, when soon a report came
that they had all been shut up in the custom-house. Upon receipt
of this information J at once proposed to go again to the governors,
and demand that they should be immediately released and allowed to
proceed to the consulate, etc. Consequently the consul, myself, Mr.
Train, and Dr. Barge went through the greatest crowd of rabble
that in all probability ever congregated in the streets of Tangier to the
governors, which, after a long interview, and Mr. De Long informing him
that he should haul down his flag and leave the Moorish dominions,
was complied with r8ic]. The governor acqniesced, and sent a messenger
to allow them to proceed to the consulate, where they were met byus on
return to the consulate. At this time Isaw and had my first interview
with the prisoners, who were disposed to complain; but cutting that
short, I asked them if they were disposed to go quietly with me on board
the mo. They desired to know what I was going to do with them. I
told them it was my purpose to take them to Algeciras, when Tunstall,
ex-consul at Cadiz, alinded to Captain Cravens being over there, and
stated that he was a relation of his. I then demanded an answer to
my question, when they both expressed their readiness to go. I then
retnrned to the audience room, where my officers, men, and the consul
had remained during my interview with the prisoners.
	Here I addressed my officers and men, also the consul, informing them
of the danger and risk to be incurred in this determination I had come
to to take the prisoners at all hazards, stating to theni we were engaged
in a righteous cause, and that the Government of the United States
expects every man to do his duty; consequently, this being our duty,
we will proceed to perform it, knowing as I do that every man in this
room will go with me to the death. At this three hearty cheers were
given, every man manifesting his readiness for the work. Here Mr.
IDeLong also made some remarks to the purpose, and which were well
received, after which Sir Drammnond Hay, British minister, called upon
Mr. J)eLong, apparently to discourage his action in the matter of send.
ing these men away (the prisoners), but as Mr. IDeLong has probably
communicated to the Department the object of his visit, it is useless for
me to make further comment. At about 5:30 p. m. the prisoners were
taken, each carried by two men. Officers and men formed in line, double
file, and proceeded to the landing, the multitude falling back at our
approach. No attempt was made to rescue them after leaving the con-
sulate. I arrived safely on board the ship, Mr. DeLong having accom-
panied me on board, where he remained until 9 oclock p. in., and
returned home, expecting to see me in the morning, as I had prom-
ised him I should expect him off so as to give him the accustomed
salute.
	It was calm at this time, but at midnight a light breeze springing up
off the land, and having some doubt about the propriety of remaining,
concluded it best to depart. Accordingly got underway at midnight and
proceeded to Algeciras, where I anchored at 5 oclock a. In., having been
absent twenty-six hours. In coming to in this place, I was unfortunate
in giving some of the Spanish vessels a foul berth, from which was
enabled to extricate her without the aid of steam. It was blowing
fresh throughout the day, which prevented the ship from swinging and
from colliding with one of the steamers. Notwithstanding my men
were nearly worn out from real hard work and want of sleep, they were
obliged to be on deck the most of the day heaving in chain and paying,
as occasion required, to prevent trouble and damage; weather rainy.
Having anchored at 5 oclock I received before 10 my second commun

Page 316

316	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

cation (No.3) from Captain Craven, which was replied to by mine (No.
3), to which I refer you, the same being sent to him by his messenger,
the bearer of No. 4 to me.
	On receipt of my No. 3, no notice having been taken of his No. 4, he
called to see me, and his object appeared to be to ascertain what I
intended to do with the prisoners. I informed him that I intended to
crnise near the rock till falling in with some American ship to send
them home by, after which should convoy her to 90 west and return to
this vicinity. He seemed a little excited, but no unpleasant words
passed between ns.
	The above was the substance of this interview. I had expected the
wind wonid moderate toward sundown, at which time I intended to
get underway and had run a hawser to the Spanish frigate ahead of
me to a~sist me in doing so. I had by this time got one anchor and
had hove in to the 30-fathom shackle on the other chain by which was
holding on, when I set the topsails; but instead of moderating it was
increasing, consequently, was very anxious, fearing a gale of wind,
which might result in great damage to the mo, one of the Spanish
steamers, and the loss of my prisoners. These circumstances induced
me to apply to Captain Craven to tow my ship into safety, when I
could get to sea. Having sent No. 5 note, and getting No. 5, declining
to assist inc before morning, was induced to send note No. 6, at 10
oclock p. in., when he returned answer saying he would help me in the
morning; also that I might have got underway at any time during the
day, and, therefore, he was not responsible for the delay, and took no
notice of my appeal in behalf of the safety of the ship, which came as
near being destroyed as she could be and yet miss it. After receiving
this last refusal I then sent a note to the captain of the Spanish
frigate, to which vessel I was then fast by a hawser. He immediately
had his own boat manned with 20 men, took my officer with him, and
went to the admirals ship to see if he would be allowed to do so. I
refer you to the note of the admiral. During the absence of the boat
it came to blow a very heavy gale, during which the ship broke adrift
(topsail furled at this time), the second anchor let go, and when she
brought up she swung to the wind, clearing another man-of-war
steamer by not more than a foot space between the mos spanker boom
and tIme steamers bow, and only about 25 or 30 feet between the vesseis,
as they lay head to the wind. My boat was unable to get back before
half past 2 oclock in the morning.
	At daylight the commodore or admiral sent to know if he could
assist me when I informed him I would be glad of assistance if he
could send me some men to assist in getting my anchors. At this time
wind had abated very much. They sent 60 men on board to heave
in my chains, but after awhile they gave that up, returned to the
steamer, got up steam, and moved out of my way. The steamer which
was lying the other side of me was also ordered to do the same thing.
This gave me all the chance I wanted for getting away, and I never
shall forget or cease to feel thankful for the kindness they manifested
toward me in givingthis timely aid. Notwithstanding Captain Cravens
assertion that he would help me in the morning, he did not offer to do
so; in fact, he never came or sent to see if he could aid me, but when
nearly underway he sent his last communication, of which I took no
notice, but proceeded to sea, with everybody pretty well used up.
Cruised to the eastward of the rock for five days, with wind from the
westward. On 5th March, with wind to the eastward, proceeded
through the straits; called off Cadiz to forward dispatches, feelin

Page 317

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
317

doubtful of those sent from Algeciras ever reaching their intended
destination.
	Off Cadiz fell iii with the Harvest Home, put my prisoners on board,
and accompanied her down off Cape St. Vincent, then returned to
Cadiz on the 8th. Left there on the 11th, and anchored at Tangier on
the 12th. Found Mr. IDeLong, apparently a little annoyed at my
apparent abrupt departure when leaving with the prisoners; but on
explaining the importance of the move, he appeared to be quite satis~
fled. He informed me that he had received 110 letters from me in
explanation of my leaving. This I was fearful of that my letters would
not reach him, but on showing him copies of the letters I had sent him
from Algeciras (including Captain Cravens letters to me), he was quite
satisfied that I had acted wisely in leaving as I did. He stated that if
Captain Craven came within his jurisdiction he would arrest and send
him home. During my absence from Tangier he was over to Algeeii as,
and returned to the same place with me on the 13th instant.
	When reaching Algeciras, I fonnd the Kearsarge, Captain Pickering,
very desirous that I should proceed to Palermo in search of two
steamers, the Oreto and Bermuda, reported to be bound to that l)lace
to fit away as privateers; con sequently, feeling that the Sumter could
not possibly get away from Gibraltar, and that the Department would
approve of this course, I gladly assented, and left the following day
for said place.
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant,
JOSIAH P. CREESY,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding U. S. Ship Inc.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. 0.



Letter from the U. S. charge daffaires at Madrid to Captain Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding
U.	S. S. Tuscarora, relative to receiving Messrs. Myers and Tunstall on board of Tuscarora.

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Madrid, February 26, 1862.
	CAPTAIN: After welcoming you to this coast, where the presencc of
the privateer Sumter has long called for the attention of our Navy, I
beg to say that Mr. Sprague, U. S. consul at Gibraltar and consular
agent for Algeciras, has reported to me the arrest, by U. S. Consul
DeLong, at Tangier, of a person calling himself a lieutenant of the
Sumter, in company with Mr. Tunstall, late U. S. consul at Cndiz, who
was deprived of his consulate for alleged infidelity to the Goveriiment
he was serving. In reference to this case I feel it my duty to inform
you that I do not regard the proceeding alluded to iii the way it
seems to have struck Mr. Sprague, according to his communication to
you of 19th instant.
	The rules of nentrality vary in different states, and especially the
rules which obtain among civilized nations are not applicable to the
Mohammedan or senil-barbarous powers. Consuls enjoy in Morocco an
almost absolute jurisdiction over the persons of their fellow-citizens or
subjects, to the exclusion of the local jurisdiction of the town or that of
the Emperor. Mr. DeLong therefore infringes no rule of public law
in arresting a citizen of the United States found within his jurisdiction,
for the crime of treason or for robbery on the high seas, any more tha

Page 318

318	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

if the arrest were for any other crime, and I beg you, if you can manage
it without losing sight of the Sumter herself, to attend to Mr. IDeLongs
request and to receive the persons he has arrested aboard your ship as
prisoners to be taken home to the United States for trial under our
laws.
	A telegram to the same effect has been sent you to-day, of which
please find a copy enclosed.
Respectfully, etc., your obedient servant,
HORATIO J. PERRY,
U.	S. tiihargJ dAffaircs.
	Captain CRAVEN,
Commanding U. S. Steam Corvette Tusoarora, at Algeciras.




Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Creesy, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship mo, relative to
disposing of prisoners Myers and Tunstall, and enclosing correspondence relating thereto.


U.	S. Snir INo,
Algeciras Roads, February 27, 1862.
	SIR: Enclosed with this please find accompanying documents, which
will explain the object of my going to sea to-day. Shall cruise near the
rock of Gibraltar till falling in with an American ship to send home my
prisoners, succeeding in finding which, shall convoy her through the
strait as far as 90 west longitude and return to this vicinity, where I
shall hope to find the Sumter still remaining; shall look out that she
does not pass out without being intercepted. I am so much fatigued
for want of rest and sleep that I can not write you so fully as I wish.
Owing to rough weather had no opportunity to do any writing on my
passage from Boston to Cadiz, and on arrival was so much fatigued as
to be unable to give my mind to it. After getting clear of my prisoners,
or previous to that, I may have an opportunity to finish up to date of
my next.
	I regret to say that in coming to in this road I lost an anchor and 15
fathoms of chain in 11 fathoms of water. The place where lost was
buoyed, and Captain Craven has volunteered to get it for me. This was
when I left for Tangier; but while away the weather was bad and he
could not get it, but says he will do so after I leave. I obtained from
him another anchor and receipted for same. I left my boat davits to
be straightened at Algeciras when leaving for Tangier, but to-day I
learn they have not as yet been sent from the Tuscarora to the smiths.
Captain Craven says to-day he will have it attended to. My boat lost
on passage out I have not replaced, nor other damage sustained have
I had replaced. Perhaps the whole, anchor and chain exclusive, will
not amount to more than $200.
	I beg to call your attention to the fact of having no specie on board.
That which was promised by the paymaster at Boston navy yard did
not come, but Treasury notes were substituted for the same. This I
did not know till about leaving the pilot, at which time I wrote to Com-
modore Hudson requesting him to notify the Department, that I may
be placed with credit to supply my wants at Cadiz, and feeling I may
be in this vicinity some time I should be glad to be relieved by draft on
Cadiz or at Algeciras or at Gibraltar. Either of the consuls would be
able to communicate with mc at iutervals and signify that I should b

Page 319

OPIA~PiONS 013 THE CRULSERSIJNION.	319

:it liberty to draw when in possession of the necessary credit without
more time.
I am, sir, with the highest respect, your faithful servant,
JOSIAH P. CREESY,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding.

Hon. GIDEoN WELLES,
Secretary United States Navy.

[Enclosures.]


[U. S. S.] TUSCARORA, February 27, 1862.
	DEAR SIR: If you have not yet sent the pirates on shore I would like
to see you on the matter.
Very respectfully,
T.	AUGS. CRAYEN~
Commanding.
	Lieutenant Commanding J. P. CR~sy,
U.	S. Ship mo.

[Endorsement.]


	Commander Craven came to see me.

J.	P.C.

U.	S. S. TUSCARORA,
Off Algeciras, February 27, 1862.
	SIR:	On examination into the laws of neutrality I find we have no
Tight to detain prisoners in the port of a neutral; the alternative is
presented of going to sea or releasing the prisoners and sending them
on shore. Under such circumstances, you will therefore release the
rebel prisoners you have on board.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
T.	AUGS. CRAVEN.
Commander.
	Lieutenant Commanding J. P. CREESY.




U.	S. SHIP INO,
Off A igeciras, February 27, 1862.
	SIR:	I am in receipt of your favor of the above date, and note its con-
tents. Without further comments than to say I positively decline to
give these men up, and in coming to this conclusion, having no other
alternative, shall proceed to sea immediately, where I can carry out my
instructions quite as much to the interest of the Uovernment as to be
lying here.
Meantime remain, your most obedient servant,
JOSIAH P. CREESY,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding.
	Captain T. AUGS. CRAVEN,
U. S. Ship Tusearora

Page 320

	320	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		                  [Telegram.]

MADRID, February 27,186212:25 p. m.
(Received Algeciras, 1:15 p. in.)
	Pray take the Tangier prisoncrs in custody aboard your ship, if it can
be done without losing sight of the Sumter. Letter to-day.
HORATIO J. PERRY,
Oharg~ dAffaires.
	Captain CRAVEN,
On board Steamer Tuscarora.


Report of Commander Pickering, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Kearsarge, relative to cruise from Portsmouth, N. II., and that the C. S.
S. Sumter was last heard of at Gibraltar.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSAR~E,
Madeira, February 22, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report the arrival of the Kearsargc at this
port to-day at 5 oclock p. In., with 67~ tons coal in her bunkers, after
a rough and boisterous passage of seventeen days and three hours from
Portsmouth, N. H., having been seven days and eight hours under
steam.
	Before leaving Portsmouth I was directed per telegraph to touch at
the Western islands, and it was my intention, though against my judg-
ment, to have obeyed the order literally, ami to have touched at Fayal,
but after the loss of my boats, ar stated below, and the necessity of
relieving myself of the launch, which encumbers my forward pivot gun,
I determined to run for this port, where I shall leave the boat and pick
her up on my return westward.
	I learn from the U. S. consul at this place that the Sumter has left
Cadiz and was last heard of at Gibraltar, which port she was ordered
to leave within twenty-four hours. I shall lose no tune here further
than is necessary to water and coal, though I much thar, from the
engineers report (respectfully enclosed) that the machinery will unavoid-
ably detain me two or three days longer, in which case Ii shall repair
and extend hammock nettings, and replace the head fixtures, etc., the
want of which is a serious inconvenience to the crew.
	I wish 1 could make a favorable report of thevessel,but am con-
strained to say that with her present weight of armament she is only
adapted to river and harbo. defense. Her bulwarks and combings of
hatches are so extremely low, and she rolls so deeply, as to force the
necessity of battening down the hatches even in moderate gales. During
the passage there has not been a day in which it would have been at
all safe to cast loose the pivot guns.
	On the third day out my waist boats were driven from their fit sten-
ings and the weight brought upon the davits which, being inadequate
in strength, were doubled up like so many priming wires. The lee
boat, containing the diughey, was swept from the ships side. The
weather boat, or launch, after great exertion, was got inboard and
secured, though not until she was stove. The straps of the waist
boats being secured or supported by iron rods, toggled in the middle
of the hammock nettings, tore adrift the hammock cloths, and hurled
some dozen hammocks into the sea. As n~ davits or any preparations
were made for carrying the gig, I was obliged to leave her at Ports-
mouth. Thus it will be seen that after the loss of the first cutter an

Page 321

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSTJNION.	321

dinghey, and the bilging of the launch, I was left with but two quarter
boats, and they so curiously secured as to render it impossible to get
either into the water, even in smooth weather, in anything short of
twenty minutes.
	On the second day out, immediately after getting into rough water,
I found my cabin aiid stateroom flooded from two sources, the imper-
fect fitting of the quarter gallery water works (rendering this con-
venience useless during the passage) and the flow of water over the
rudder head, which is cut off near a level of the water line; and the
steering quadrant preventing a sufficient height to the rudder easing
renders it almost hopeless of remedy. In moderate weather 1 have been
obliged to walk about the cabin on gratings, and in rough weather in
India-rubber boots. Notwithstanding the constant bailing of water
from the cabin day and night, it found its way into the wardroom and
endangered the magazines, from the passage of which, in moderate
weather, the water was bailed out before it overflowed the risings at
magazine doors.
	It is hazardous in any vessel, especially a steamer, and at this season,
to be fitted without spare tiller or relieving tackles. This vessel has
neither, while her wheel ropes are badly fitted. The hammock nettin gs
are so shallow, and extend so short a distance from forward aft, that
with the best stowage not more than three. fourths of the hammocks
can be stowed, leaving some forty to be stowed about deck. The shell
rooms also being found wanting in capacity for the accommodation of
shell, one of the sail rooms was diverted from its object to meet the
requirements in the ordnance department, thus leaving ships and boats
awnings, wind sails, etc., to be stowed about decks.
	On the 10th of February the head railings and head fixtures were
washed away, and hammock nettings stove, which circumstance,
together with the constant and suffocating smoke upon the berth deck,
occasioned by the diminutive diameter of the galley smoke pipe, has
rendered the crew exceedingly uncomfortable and swelled the sick list
during the passage.
	.The air ports fore and aft the ship leaked badly, in spite of all the
screwing that was safe to put npon them none of them could be
removed until our arrival here, when it was found they were packed
with satinet instead of fearnaught, and that furnished in the ships
stores I find but little better, being one-third cotton.
	The engines have performed well during the passage out, for new
engines, requiring stoppages only for keying up and heated journals.
The greatest speed, under the most favorable circumstances, without
the assistance of sails, has been 84 miles per hour; under sail, without
steam, scudding under close-reefed topsails and propeller disconnected,
she has frequently made 10 and 11 knots per hour; lays to perfectly
well with propeller disconnected under close-reefed fore and main top-
sails and close-reefed spanker, cirrying two spokes lee helm.
	I would respectfully suggest that in steamers of this class 3 or 4
feet additional beam would add to their stability, capacity, buoyancy,
and efficiency, enabling them to fight their guns with safety in a sea-
way, give space for the stowage of ammunition, stores, etc. (the want
of which in this ship is a lamentable and serious evil), and dimiuish
the draft, all of which points are of the highest importance.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
	C. W. PICKERING,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
	123A	2

Page 322

322	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from Acting Volunteer Lieutenant (Jreesy, U. S. Navy, command-
ing U. S. ship mo, to Commander T. A. Craven, commanding U. S. S.
Tuscarora, expressing desire to cooperate in pursuit of C. S. S. Sumter.

U.	S. Snip INO,
Algeciras Lloads, February 25, 1862.
	SIR: Being here in pursuit of the pirate Sumter, and supposing you
to be on the same mission, viz, the capture or destruction of that ves-
sel, I beg to say that I am ready to cooperate with you for the further-
ance of that object so far as it is consistent with my instructions from
the Navy Department. Any suggestions from you upon the subject
will be received with the highest consideration for your rank, station,
and personal worth. Meantime I remain, sir,
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOSIAH P. CREESY,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding U. S. ship mo.
	Captain T. A. CRAVEN,
U.	S. S. Tuscarora.



Report of Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tusca-
rora, of his arrival at Gibraltar and enclosing correspondence with the
colonial authorities there.
U.	S. S. TITSCARORA,
Off Algeciras, February 25, 1862.
	Sin: I have the honor to report to you that, in pursuance of my
intentions, of which you were informed in my letter of 3d instant, I, after
the escape of the Nashville, caine direct to Gibraltar, fortunately find-
ing the pirate Sumter at anchor on my arrival there, February 12.
	Immediately after my arrival I was visited by one of the governors
aids, who served upon me a printed copy of the neutrality notice of
31st January, accompanied by a letter from the colonial secretary, who,
under the direction of the governor, requested me to signify my com-
pliance with the rules laid down. My reply to the secretary is exhib-
ited in the accompanying copy, marked A.
	In accordance with the rules, I left the waters of Gibraltar in about
twenty-four hours after my arrival there, and anchored on the Spanish
side of the bay.
	On the 19th I sent a boat across the bay, with the surgeon and pay-
master, to place an invalid on board of a homeward-bound vessel then
underway; this service performed, the officers had my permission to
land at Gibraltar and send the boat immediately back to the ship.
	On the 20th instant I was surprised to receive a letter signed jointly
by the governor and senior naval officer, copy ot which, marked B, is
herewith enclosed. This letter I consider as offensive and insulting
throughout, and as offering indignity to my Government.
	Upon the mere accusation of a deeply dyed traitor to our country, a
man who had violated his oath of fidelity to the laws and Constitution
of the United States, a man whose chief boast is that he has plundered,
robbed, and destroyed the unarmed merchant vessels of our countryI
say, upon the bare complaint of this perjured man, I found myself con-
demned, without a hearing, of having committed an official impropriety
in taking undue advantage of my position, and thus summarily sen-
tenced to abstain from sending my boats across the bay

Page 323

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	323

	Fully satisfied that under the rules I had a right to proceed to
Gibraltar at any time, with this ship, and remain there twenty-four
hours, I can not perceive any impropriety in sending a boat to that
place, nor did I for one moment suppose that such an act could be tor-
tured into a breach of neutrality.
	I could not but feel that the joiiit letter of the two officers named
instigated as it was by the complaint of a pirate, was an affront to the
tlah under which I have the honor to serve; my l)atience had been
already taxed to the utmost at Southampton, and it was hardly to be
expected that nuder this new indignity I should remain silent. It must
be remembered that the charge against me came from the avowed and
bitter foe of my country, who. in add ition to the other evils inflicted by
him on the citizens of the United States, now sought to annoy and
obstruct me in the discharge of my duties~ How could I, under all the
circumstances, be expected to meet with patience a grave accusation
from such a sourcean accusation which resulted in seriously inter-
fering with mel
	If I have used harsh epithets in speaking of the captaiu of the Sum-
ter, they are only such as his course for the past year has entitled him
to, and it is vain to say that inasmuch as the British Government have
made a quasi recognition of the rebel States, I, an officer of the
United States, must so govern my language as to suit the taste of those
who afford comfort, if not aid, to the enemies of my greatly suffering
country. It was an injustice to me, as well as an offense , thus to have
condemned and censured me without having given me an opportunity
for explanation.
	A copy of my reply to the joint letter is marked C, and there is noth-
ing in it that I can wish to change.
	Early in the morning of the 22d instant I dispatched a boat to Gib-
raltar, with a communication (copy marked D) for the governor; in the
course of the same day I received by mail a letter (copy marked E)
dated 21st, to which I was preparing an equally courteous reply when
I was visited by an officer having two letters (copies marked F and G).
	To neither of these last documents have I made any reply, believing
that a correspondence of such asperity is productive of no benefit, and
even in my own defense I can not, with dignity, communicate through
the only channel left to me, which I consider as a restriction not becom-
ing to my position.
	In submitting to you this correspondence I have but little to add.
To a calm and dispassionate examination of the case it will be evident
that whatever of offense has occurred was not through initiation on
may part.
	I was yesterday visited by the U. S. consul for Gibraltar on the
subject of this correspondence; he had received a visit in reference to
the matter from Captain Warden, at whose instance he called on the
governor, with whom he discussed it. It appears they wanted an
apology, or some explanation from me. As I had none to make, I
declined further writing unless the unbecoming restrictions were
removed. I told the consul he might say to the governor that I
intended no disrespect to him personally or officially; that I had felt
that an indignity had been inflicted on me, and had met it with what
I considered a becoming tone; that the governor had no right to take
offense at my having applied to the pirate captain the only epithets
which, under the laws of the United States, appertain to him
	In the course of the interview previously held with the governor by
the consul, the governor informed him that by his construction of th

Page 324

324	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

rules, the Sumter might remain at Gibraltar as long as the captain
desired. This intimation will of itself indicate the true position of
affairs.
	In direct contrast with the remarkable treatment I have received
from the British authorities, I am gratified to speak of the courtesies
of the Spanish officers on shore and in the large squadron at anchor
here.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T.	AUGS. CRAVEN,
Commander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington.

[Enclosures.]


SECRETARYS OFFICE,
Gibraltar, February 12, 1862.
	SIR: I am directed by his Excellency the governor to enclose an
official copy of rules laid down with regard to belligerent vessels enter-
ing this port. These rules are a confirmation of those which have pre.
viously been imposed upon and observed by the commander of the
C. S. S. Sumter, by a letter dated 28th ultimo, an extract from which is as
follows:
	You are aware of the determination of her Majestys Government to maintain the
strictest neutrality in the hostilities which are now being carried on between the
United and the Confederate States of North America. In order to cause that neu-
trality to be effectually respected throughout the Queens dominions, her Majesty
has directed (in accordance with a long-established European practice) that no ship
of war, privateer, or other armed vessel helongiug to either of the belligerents,
which shall anchor in any British port, shall be allowed to quit her anchorage within
twenty-four hours after any vessel helonging to the adverse belligerent, whether
armed or unarmed, shall have left the same port.
	In order to give effect to her Majestys orders I am to desire that, on the arrival of
any such armed vessel in any port or roadstead within your Government, you will
notify this rule to her commander, and will inform him that in case he should infringe
it, his Government will be held responsible by that of Great Britain for violating
the neutrality of British waters.

	I forward the extract in order that there shall be no misunderstand-
ing as to this rule being in force at once at Gibraltar.
	It is necessary to inform you that any act of hostility attempted
within the jurisdiction of Gibraltar will be at once prevented by all
means at the disposal of the English authority.
	It would be agreeable to the governor to know that your understand-
ing of the obligations of international law is similar to that herein laid
down, arid that you will act accordingly, in which case he would repose
full confidence in you (as he has in others) that the neutrality of this
port would not be infringed.
	The governor communicated on the 6th instant to the commander of
the Sumter his desire that no person under the rank of an officer should
land or be sent to the water port or other parts of this fortress armed,
and he requests you will give similar orders to those under your com-
mand.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
S.	FREELING-,
Colonial Secretary.
	[Commander T. A. CRAVEN,
Commanding U. S. S. Tusearora.

Page 325

OPI~1IATIONS OF TH1~ CRUIS sUNION.

[Enclosure.]

NOTICE.

SECRETARYS OFFICE,
Gibraltar, February 10, 1862.
	The following copy of a letter from Earl Russell to the lords com-
missioners of the admiralty is hereby published for general information.
	By command.
S.	FREELING,
Colonial Secretary.
FORETA~N OFFICE, January 81, 1862.
	Her Majesty, being fully determined to observe the duties of neutral-
ity during the existing hostilities between the United States and the
States calling themselves the Confederate States of America, and being,
moreover, resolved to prevent as far as possible the nse of her Majestys
harbors, ports, and coasts, and the waters withiii her Majestys terri-
torial jurisdiction, iii aid of the warlike purposes of either belligerent,
has commanded me to communicate to your lordships for your guidance
the following rules, which are to be treated and enforced as her Maj-
estys orders and directions.
	Her Majesty is pleased further to command that these rules shall be
put in force in the United Kingdom and in the Channel Islands on and
after Thursday, the 6th of February next, and in her Majestys terri-
tories and possessions beyond the seas six days after the day when the
governor or other chief authority of such territories or possessions,
respectively, shall have notified and published the same, stating in such
notification that the said rules are to be obeyed by all persons within
the same territories and possessions.
	I. During the continuance of the present hostilities between the
Government of the United States of North America and the States
calling themselves the Confederate States of America,~~ or until her
Majesty shall otherwise order, no ship of war or privateer belonging to
either of the belligerents shall be permitted to enter, or remain in the
port of Nassau, or in any other port, road stead, or waters of the
Bahama Islands, except by special leave of the lieutenant-governor of
the Bahama Islands, or in case of stress of weather. If any such ves-
sel should enter such port, roadstead, or waters, by special leave, or
under stress of weather, the authorities of the place shall require her
to put to sea as soon as possible, without permitting her to take in any
supplies beyond what may be necessary for her immediate use. If; at any
time when this order is first notified in the Bahama Islands, there shall
be any such vessel already within any port, roadstead, or waters of
those islands, the lieutenant-governor shall give notice to such vessel
to depart, and shall require her to pat to sea within such time as he
shall, under the circumstances, consider proper and reasonable. If
there shall then be ships of war or privateers belonging to both the
said belligerents within the territorial jurisdiction of her Majesty, in
or near the same port, roadstead, or waters, the lieutenant-governor
shall fix the order of time in which such vessels shall depart. No such
vessels of either belligerents shall be permitted to put to sea until after
the expiration of at least twenty-four hours from the time when the
last preceding vessel of the other belligerent (whether the same shall
be a ship of war, or privateer, or merchant ship) which shall have left
the port, roadstead, or waters, or waters adjacent thereto, shall have
passed beyond the territorial jurisdiction of her Majesty

Page 326

326	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUfSERSUNIO~.

	II.	During the continuance of the present hostilities between the
Government of the United States of North America and the States
calling themselves the Confederate States of America, ~ all shipsof
war and privateers of either belligerent are prohibited from making
nse of any port or roadstead in the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Ireland, or in the Channel Islands, or in any of her Majestys col-
onies or foreign possessions or dependencies, or of any waters subject
to the territorial jurisdiction of the British Crown as a station or place
of resort for any warlike purpose, or for the purpose of obtaining any
facilities of warlike equipment; and no ship of war or privateer of
either belligerent shall hereafter be permitted to sail out of or leave
any port, roadstead, or waters, subject to British jurisdiction, froni
which any vessel of the other belligerent (whether the same shall be
a ship of war, a privateer, or a merchant ship) shall have previously
departed, until after the expiration of at least twenty-four hours from
the departure of such last-mentioned vessel beyond the territorial juris-
diction of her Majesty.
	III.	If any ship of war or privateer of either belligerent shall, after
the time when this order shall be first notified and put in force in the
United Kingdom and in the Channel Islands, and in the several colo-
nies and foreign possessions and dependencies of her Majesty, respec-
tively, enter any port, roadstead, or waters belonging to her Majesty,
either in the United Kingdom or in the Channel Islands, or in ai~yof
her Majestys colonies or foreign possessions or dependencies, such ves-
sel shall be required to (lepart and to put to sea within twenty-four
hours after her entrance into such port, roadstead, or waters, except in
case of stress of weather or of her requiring provisions or things nec-
essary for the subsistence of her crew, or repairs; in either of which
cases the authorities of the port, or of the nearest port, as the case
may be, shall require her to put to sea as soon as possible after the
expiration of such period of twenty-four hours, without permitting
her to take in supplies beyond what may be necessary for her imme-
diate use; and no such vessel which may have been allowed to remain
within British waters for the purpose of repair shall continue in any
such Port, roadstead, or waters for a longer period than twenty-four
hours after her necessary repairs shall have been completed: Pro-
vided nevertheless, That in all cases in which there shall be any
vessels (whether ships of war, privateers, or merchant ships) of both
the said belligerent parties in the same port, roadstead, or waters within
the territorial jurisdiction of her Majesty, there shall be an interval of
not less than twenty-four hours between the departure therefrom of
any such vessel (whether a ship of war, privateer, or a merchant ship),
of the one belligerent, and the subsequent departure therefrom of any
ship of war or privateer of the other belligerent; and the times hereby
limited for the departure of such ships of war and privateers, respect-
ively, shall always, in case of necessity, be extended so far as may be
requisite for giving effect to this proviso, but not further or otherwise.
	IV.	No ship of war or privateer of either belligerent shall hereafter
be permitted, while in any port, roadstead, or waters subject to the
territorial jurisdiction of her Majesty, to take in any supplies, except
provisions and such other things as may be requisite for the subsist-
ence of her crew, and except so much coal only as may be sufficient to
carry such vessel to the nearest port of her own country, or to some
nearer destination; and no coal shall be again supplied to any such ship
of war or privateer, in the same or any other port, roadstead, or waters
subject to the territorial jurisdiction of her Majesty, without specia

Page 327

OPERATIONS OF TILE CRUISERSUNION.
327
permission, until after the expiration of three months from the time
when such coal may have been last supplied to her within British waters
as aforesaid.
I have, etc.,
RUSSELL.


A.
U.	S. S. TUSGARORA,
Gibraltar Bay, February 13, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communi-
cation of the 12th instant, enclosing a copy of the rules respecting
belligerents. His Excellency the governor may rest assured that it is
my intention to comply with all the requirements of British neutrality.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T.	AUGS. CRAVEN,
Commander.
S.	FREELING, Esq.,
Cobujal Secretary.


B.

GIBRALTAR, Pebruary 20, 1862.
	SIR:	A boat from the Tuscarora, now at anchor at Algeciras, came
across the bay yesterday morning. Captain Semmes complains that she
pulled round the Sumter as if watching her.
	It is necessary for the maintenance of the neutrality of this port
that advantage should not be taken of the close proximity of a foreign
anchorage, in some places only 2~ miles distant, in aid of any warlike
purpose. Considering, as we do, that the presence of the boat repre-
sents the ship herself, we are of opinion that its presence under such
circumstance is an infringement of the rules of which you were given
a copy on the 12th instant. We therefore request you will be good
enough, during the stay of the Tuscarora in the Spanish waters of this
bay, to abstain from sending your boats at all into these waters.
We have 1iie honor to be, sir, your obedient servants,
W.	J. CoDRI~GToN,
Lieutenant- General and Governor.
FRED. WARDEN,
Senior Captain.
[Commander T. A. CRAVEN,
Commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora.]



C.
U.	S. S. TUSOARORA,
Off Algeciras, February 20, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communi-
cation of this day. The complaint of the captain of the pirate Sumter
is without a shadow of truth. I summoned before inc the coxswain of
the boat, and in the presence of the officer who brought me your letter
asked him as to what course he steered in returning from Gibraltar
yesterday. He said he came straight across, passing somewhat to th

Page 328

32$	OPERATIONS OF THE ORUISEIISUNION.

southward of the Warrior. The boat was sent over on business of the
ship, and from the course taken by the officer of the boat I know, from
my own observation, that he made a great circuit to the southward.
	I am mortified, sir, in being compelled to make these explanations
against accusations of one who is regardless of truth or honorable
sentiment. Your request that I will not send boats to Gibraltar
deprives me of sending for mails or communicating with the U. S. consul,
and I must in good faith enquire of you whether it is right that on the
false accusation of a notorious corsair you should desire to prohibit
me from intercourse with the town under your command.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T.	AuGs. CRAvEN,
Commander.
	General Sir WILLIAM [J.] (I5ODRINGTON,
Governor of Gibraltar.



D.
U. S. S. TUSOARORA,
Off Algeciras, February 22, 1862.
	SIR:	II have the honor to submit to you that, on my arrival in the
waters of Gibraltar on the 12th instant, I received from the colonial
secretary, under your instructions, an official copy of Rules laid down
with regard to belligerent vessels entering the port. In accordance
with those rules, I, with the vessels under my command, promptly
departed from British waters. I observe, however, that the corsair
Sumter remained iu undisturbed possession of her anchorage at Gibral-
tar. May I ask, sir~, under what section of the ~ that vessel is
permitted to remain in British waters [from] which a vessel belonging
to the United States is excluded ~
	In behalf of the Government of the United States, and under the well-
defined ruling of international law, I have to protest against what
appears to be a departure from these ~ which require that neu-
trals shal] be strictly impartial and honest.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T.	AUGS. CRAVEN,
Commander.
	General Sir WM. [J.] CoDRINGToN,
Governor of Gibraltar.



E.

GIBRALTAR, February 21, 1862.
	SIR:	I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of yesterday,
and to express my regret that you should think it necessary to use such
terms in your correspondence with me as the captain of the pirate
Sumter, notorious corsair, and a man regardless of truth or hon-
orable sentiment.
	I do not wish unnecessarily to be made the recipient of terms of abuse
leveled against a~nyone; still less against an officer who, in his written
and personal communications with me, under circumstances of annoy-
ance and difficulty to himself, has not forgotten what is due to his ow

Page 329

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	329

position and to the position of those with whom he was in correspond-
ence.
	The Government of England has recognized the United States and
the so called Confederate States of America to be belligerents, with
belligerent rights. You are aware of this fact, and it renders your
terms of pirate and notorions corsair, applied to a Confederate ves-
sel in this anchorage, incorrect and offensive to the anthority thus
granting and maintaining the rights of neutrality.
	You have not touched upon the main ground of the decision of Cap-
tain Warden and myself as to your boats coming into Gibraltar from
Algeciras, viz, that they are in law part of the ship itself, and that
their presence here, coming from Spanish waters close to Gibraltar, is
an infringement of rules which must be observed. With regard to
your being deprived of sending for mails or communicating with the U.
S. consul of Gibraltar whilst you are at Algeciras, and your enquiry as to
my desire to prohibit you from intercourse with this place, I can only
say that the decision of Captain Warden and myself, in our joint let-
ter of yesterday, refers only to the point mentioned in that letter. The
use of this anchorage will be given and limited to both belligerents
equally; but it is not right for one belligerent to obtain for his ship the
advantage of absence in a neighboring foreign port, and of presence at
the same time in this port by means of his boats.
	It would have been better to have made strict enquiry into the facts
as to the course taken by your boat before you declared the complaint
to be without a shadow of truth. I have to inform you that your
boat did not pass straight across from the water port to you, and
that it did not pass somewhat to the southward of the Warrior.
	Your boat went out of its straight course materially; it passed to the
east, to the north, to west, and pretty close to the Sumter; it passed
north and west of the port vessel; afterwards between the P. and 0.
hulk and II. M. S. Warrior, going to the north of the Warrior. These
i~tcts are established by English officers who saw your boat.
	I regret the necessity of having thus to remark upon the expressions
and statements in your letter. Difficult questions arise, and official
differences may take place under the painful circumstances of the war
between the Northern and Southern States of America; but it has
ever been, and will still be a pleasure to me to show to the Navy of
the United States the consideration and hospitality which the English
Government wishes to afford to all those who make use of the harbors
under its control.
Jam, sir, yourobedientservant,
W.	J. CODRINGTON,
Lieutenant- General and Governor.
Commander T. A. CRAVEN,
U.	S. S. Tusearora, Algeciras.


F.

GIBRALTAR, February 22, 1862.
	SIR: I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of this days
date, delivered to me by one of the officers of the Tusearora. I enquired
how he came over. He informed me, by one of the Tuscaroras boats,
which, after the joint letter from Captain Warden and myself, I was
surprised to see passing into these waters. This will be the subject of
a separate communication to you

Page 330

330	OPERATIONs OF THE CRtYISERS4TNION.

	You state that, in accordance with the rules which I had communicated
to you on your first anchoring in Gibraltar, you promptly departed
from British waters. You certainly did so, aiid entirely by your own
free will. I had nothing to say to your departure or to your interpreta-
tion of the rules communicated to you. The Confederate steamer Sumter
remains here under proper authority, and I decline to discuss with you
the rules to which you refer, your particular interpretation of them,, or
to account to you for my proceedings under them.
	In reference to the last sentence in your letter (I quote your words),
that you protest against what appears to be a departure from those
rules which require that neutrals (meaning, I presume, the English
Government and myself as governor of Gibraltar) shall be impartial
and honest. If you are aware of the effect of this latter epithet, you
have communicated to me for the English Government a direct and
insulting insinuation, as indecorous for you to have written as it is
improper for me to receive. If you are not aware of it, it is right for
me to show you the effect of language which I trust a regard for your
own position will prevent you from repeating in your correspondence
with me.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
	W. J. CODRIWTON,
	Captain CRAvEN,	Lieutenant- General and Gorernor.
Commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora.



GIBRALTAR, February 22, 1862.
	Sin: Notwithstanding the notice which you received on the 20th
instant, requesting you to abstain from sending any boat at all, belonging
to the Tuscarora, into these waters while you were in the Spanish waters
of this bay, we observe that your launch containing three officers passed
to the water port this morning from the Tuscarora. A courteous message
was sent to the officer of that boat when at the water port by a lieutenant
of II. M. S. London, requesting him to withdraw and return immediately
to hi~ own ship, which he did, taking, however, a quantity of supplies
which, nuder the circumstances in which the Tusearora is placed, heought
not to have done without permission. This occurrence places us under
the necessity of acquainting you that for the fntnre orders will be given
to the officers commanding her Majestys ships in this anchorage, to pre-
vent any boat whatever belonging to the Tuscarora from repeating this
breach of our notice conveyed to you on the 20th.
	This order does not prevent your communicating with your consul, or
with the British territory generally, inasmuch as there is a daily com-
munication by means of a merchant steamer, and the regular post affords
the necessary opportunity for your correspondence.
	In the event of your wishing to make any communication to us which
can not be trusted to other means, we desire that the approach of your
boat be limited to a direct course to II. M. [ship] London, now at anchor
in the north part of the harbor, the captain of which ship will trans-
fer your communication to us.
We have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servants,
W.	J. CODRINGTON,
Lieutenant- General and Governor.
FRED. WARDEN,
Senior Naval Officer.
Commander CRAVEN,
U.	S. S. Tuscarora

Page 331

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	331

Letter from the U. ~. consul at Gibraltar to Commander Craven, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, relative to correspondence between
the governor of Gibraltar and Commander Craven.

[Confidential.]


SATURDAY, 3 P. ~L, February 22, 1862.
	M~ DEAR SIR: The British senior naval officer here has called upon
me on the subject of the tone of your correspondence with the governor,
and at his request I called upon his Excellency, who expressed not only
his surprise but regret at the wording of your notes to him, which he
somewhat considers as an insult upon the British Government and also
to himself. In fact, our interview was a long and very frank one, and I
now write to say that I shall endeavor to go to Algeciras to-morrow
morning to see you on the subject and explain to you exactly how
matters stand. As I stated to you when I first had the pleasure of
making your acquaintance, endeavor to abstain from doing anything
that might be considered a violation of neutral rights. Your boats are
prohibited from coming over, because they are legally a part and parcel
of the ship. If you require provisions yon are at liberty to cross over
in ship and remain twenty-four honrs. As to the Sumter, I am still of
opinion that the report that she takes in coal at night is incorrect. I
mentioned the circumstance to the general and the senior naval officer,
amid they inform me neither party can receive any coal without an order
from them. I further learn that the Sumter having arrived here before
the rules laid down by Earl Russell were put in force she can remain
here as long as she likes, and it would also have been the case if the
Tuscaroi a had arrived here before they were in force.
	I have found his Excellency very frank in all he had to say to me,
and, while I have no control over your own actions, may I beg to solicit
in the name of our Union a conrse of action to prevent any further bad
feeling and irritation, which can do no good, but may bring about serious
consequences to our Government. To-morrow 1 shall converse fully upon
these points and hope you will give me a hearing.
Y6urs, sincerely,
H.	J. SPRAGUE.

Captain CRAVEN,
U.	S. S. Tuscarora.




Report of Commander Pickering, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kear.
sarge, relative to departure of his ship from ]Jladeira to Cadiz.

U.	S. S. KEARSARGE, Madeira, February 27,1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report my departure front this port for
Cadiz at 4 p. m. to-day.
	*	*	-*	*	* *	*


I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
	C. W. PICKERING,
	Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 332

332	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Order and instructions from Secretary of the Navy to Commander
Thatcher, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. sloop Constellation, relative to
protection of United States commerce from Confederate privateers and
cruisers in the Mediterranean Sea.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, February 28, 1862.
	SIR:	As soon as the U. S. sloop of war Constellation is ready for sea,
proceed with her with all practicable dispatch to the Mediterranean,
touching on the way at the Azores, Lisbon, and Cadiz.
	The maiu object in sending the Constellation to the Mediterranean is
the protection of our commerce from the piratical depredations of ves-
sels fitted out by those in rebellion against the United States. The
principal one of these vessels, the Sumter, which has so far eluded our
cruisers, when last heard from was in the vicinity of Gibraltar. Your
chief duty will be the pursuit of that vessel should she remain in that
quarter. At the same tinie, however, you will exercise vigilance in all
cases.
	Keep the Department advised of your proceedings and movements,
and inform it, from time to time, at what point letters will be most
likely to reach you.
	Before sailing from Portsmouth, N. II., transmit to the Departincn ~
a muster roll of the crew and a separate list of the officers of the Con-
stellation.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
~jSecretary of the Navy.]
Commander HENRY K. THATCHER,
Commanding U. S. Sloop Constellation, Portsmouth, N. 11.


Passage of the C. S. S. Nashville into Beaufort, N. C., February 28,1862.

Report of Commander Armstrong, U. S. Navy, commanding ~J. S. S. State of Georgia, of the
escape of C. S. S. Nashville into Beaufort, N. C.

U. S. S. STATE OF GEORGIA,
Off Beaufort, N. C., February 28, 1862.
	SIR:	I have to report to you that at daylight this morning a steamer
was discovered near the land, and, notwithstanding I chased and fired
at hcr until well within range of the guns of Fort Macon, she succeeded
in making good her entry into the harbor of Beaufort. The steamer is
said to be the Nashville by officers acquainted with her. Deeming it
highly important that you should be informed of this fact as soon as
possible, I have under cover of the night run down to the westward
and dispatched a boat to communicate with the senior officer off Wil-
mington. I have notified him that having been on this station since
January 29 my coal is getting so low that a proper regard for the safety
of this ship will compel me to leave in a short period for Fortress Mon-
roe, and that owing to the facility of egress from Beaufort by three
channels it is impossible for us alone to detect a vessel attempting to
escape on a dark night, and I requested his assistance.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAS. F. ARMSTRONG,
Commander.
	Flag-Officer L. M. GOLDSEOROUGH,
Commanding North Atlantic Blockading Squadron,
Hampton Roads, Va

Page 332A

UNITED STATES SHIP CONSTELLATION

Page 332B


Page 333

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	333

Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Captain Narston, U. S. Navy, senior officer, Hamp-
ton Roads, requesting further reports regarding escape of the C. S. S. Nashville.


NAVY DEPARTMENT, March 6, 1862.

	SIR: Your dispatch of the 5th instant, conveyin~ the intelligence of
the successful escape of the Nashville into Beaufort, N. C., has beeii
received. The Department requires a more full statement from Com-
mander Armstrong of this most unfortunate occurrence. Let the other
commanding officers who were present make a report; also the first
lieutenant of the Georgia.
	*	*	*	*	*	* *

	The Department is unable to learn what measures you can take to
keep the N~ishville in Beaufort, but they should be characterized by
energy, as that point is threatened by General iBurnside, and the Nash-
ville must seek the first opportunity to escape. Two gunboats have
been ordered from Boston to proceed to Beaufort, but I fear too late to
be of service.
	Endorse on all your envelopes the date of mailing.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Captain JOHN MARSTON,	[Secretary of the Navy.]
U.	S. S. Roanoke and Senior Officer, B[ampton Roads, Va.



Detailed report of Commander Armstrong, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. State of Georgia,
of the escape of C. S. S. Nashville into Beaufort, N. C.


U.	S. S. STATE OF GEORO-JA,

Hampton Roads, March 18, 1862.
	SIR: On my arrival yesterday at this place from Beaufort, N. C., I
received a communication, of the 16th instant, from Flag-Officer Golds-
borough, inforniing me the Department required from me and from my
flrst lieutenant a fuller statement concerning the escape of the Nash-
ville into the harbor of Beaufort, N. C., and to require from the other
commanding officers who were present a report of it.
	No other vessel was present. Since January 5 [251 only one vessel
has been off that port, the U. S. bark (iernsbok, from that date to Jan-
uary 29, when this ship arrived from, and the Gemsbok left for, Hamp-
ton Roads for supplies. She returned on March 2, two days after the
escape of the Nashville. I furnish the following statement and enclose
that of the first lieutenant:
	On the morning of the 28th of February, at daylight, a sail was seen,
which proved to be a steamer, apparently at anchor a
inshore of us to the Westward with	, bout 3 miles
the American flag and signals fly-
ing. This ship was got under way, when the strange steamer started
ahead, then turning toward us, as if to speak, dashed off at great speed
for the channel. This ship gave chase and the Parrott gun (the only
gun bearing) was fired at her several times to bring her to, but without
avail. After she passed through the channel she fired one gun at us,
a rifle gun of small caliber, which fell short, when she hoisted the
rebel flag.
	This ship kept on until well within range of the guns of Fort Macon
and came round as thesteamer was passing in behind it, and all the
-	port guns were disch raged at her, all falling short except the Parrot

Page 334

334	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

gun, which for the first time passed beyond her and the angle of the
fort. No guns were fired from the fort, though the men were at them
and could have beeii counted. Although she had the American flag
and signals flying, that did not slacken my preparations to move.
My guns have been cast loose, at all times ready, one watch in readi-
ness at the guns, and when from signals at the fort or other indica-
tions I had reason to suspect a vessel, alt hands were at quarters.
	In order to remain on my station as long as possible, this ship whemi
at anchor had been lying with banked fires. On the morning of the
28th, although steam was got up as quickly as possible, the steam, in
working oft, was reduced, reducing the speed of this ship, and as the
rebel steamer was under a press of steam she outran me. The Nash-
ville is said by officers acquainted with her to have a speed of 13 knots,
greater by from 2 to 3 knots than I have ever gotten out of this ship.
	The bar off the entrance of Beaufort has three channelsthe slough
channel nearest the fort, with a depth of 10 feet; the south channel,
by which the Nashville entered, with a depth of 18 feet, and the old
southeast channel, mentioned as the channel on the chart of 1857, with
a depth of 14 feet. To blockade the coast of Onslow Bay effectually
requires a force of five steamers, three of which should be off Beau-
fort. I can not blame myself for any want of vigilance or endeavor to
prevent the escape of the Nashville.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAMES F. ARMSTRONG,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.




Report of Lieutenant Haxtun, U. S. Navy, executive officer U. S. S. State of Georgia, of escape
of C. S. S. Nashville into Beaufort, N. C.

U.	S. S. STATE OF GEORGIA,
Off Fortress ]lilionroe, March 17, 1862.
	SIR: In obedience to the instructions of the Department, received
by me this day through Commander James F. Armstrong, I have the
honor to make the fohowing statement of the successful entry of the
rebel steamer Nashville into the harbor of Beaufort, N. C.:
	On the morning of February 28 this ship was lying alone at anchor
off time entrance to the harbor of Beaufort. Shortly after 6 oclock the
messenger boy came to my room and informed me that there was a
sail in sight. I went on deck and found the captain there and the crew
heaving up the anchor; I also discerned a boat coming toward us
under sail; went on the hurricane deck and observed the vessel. She
proved to be a steamer inshore of us, and on our port bow, distant
over 2 miles, apparently at anchor. The boat arrived alongside; she
contained four contrabands; had her discharged and dropped astern;
returned to the hurricane deck and resumed my observation of the
steamer. She had an American ensign flying at her peak and a signal
at the main. The muen were being hurried at the windlass, and at about
the time the anchor was aweigh, she was moving slowly and had turned
partially toward us as if intending to run down and speak us; her
speed was increased and she was not turned any farther in our direc-
tion. Commander Armstrong said to me he thought she was a me

Page 335

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	335

chant steamer trying to run the blockade, and he gave the order to go
ahead and to pipe to quarters, the men being then at the catfall. There
~vas some delay in our moving and his orders were reiterated. When
I next noticed her she was ahead of this ship, going at great speed; we
were moving at a comparatively moderate rate. The only gun that
could be brought to bear was the rifled Parrott gun on the topgallant
forecastle, mounted on an ordinary truck carriage, and we had to yaw
for that. Our fire was of no avail; she reached the passage leading
directly to the fort, turned short, dashed ahead, and then hoisted the
rebel flag.
	We followed her well within range of the guns of Fort Macon and
turned, discharging our port broadside as we came around, the shot all
falling short except the one from the Parrott gun, which passed beyond
her. I think she was not at any time within 2 miles of this ship.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
MILTON IIAXTUN,
Lieutenant and Executive Officer.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. 0.


Abstract of log, U. S. S. State of Georgia, Commander 3. F. Armstrong.

	February 28, 1862.At 5:40 a. m. reported a vessel to the W. S. W.,
distant about 3 miles, apparently lying still. Made her out to be a
steamer; same time saw a boat coming oft in the direction of the fort.
Hove up anchor and steered in to intercept the steamer, she showing
American colors and No. 9 at the main and making fast headway for
the entrance of the harbor. Fired at her three times with our Parrott
and four times with our port broadside guns, but failed to stop her.
After she got over the bar she fired one shot at us, but it fell short.
Hauling down the signal and ensign and substituting the English flag
aft and the Confederate flag forward, then again hauling down the
English ensign and setting the Confederate one. At 0:20 a boat came
alongside containing three contrabands, Cape Lookout light-house
bearing E. by S., Fort Macon flagstaff bearing N.~ W.




The search for the U. S. ship Vermont, March 1April 12, 1862.

Report of Commander Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Vermont, of the helpless
condition of that ship.

[U. S.] SHIP VERiVIONT,
LAT. 400 23 N. by OBSERYATION; LONG. by 1). It., 680 43 W.,
March 1, 1862, meridian.
	Ship drifting to the S. E. half E. 2 knots, at the mercy of wind and
sea. Entirely helpless; rudder and sails gone. Require prompt and
powerful steam assistance.
A.	S. BALDWIN,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secrctar~ of the Navy, Washington

Page 336

	336	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		                  [Telegram.]

(1~eceived March 1, 1862, from New York.)
	The following telegram was received this evening at 9 p. in.:

ON BOARD SCHOONER FLYING MIST,
Off Chatham, Mass., March 1, 1862.
	At 2 oclock p. in., Thursday, 27th ultimo, I left the U. S. ship Vermont in disabled
condition in 17 fathoms water, Cape Cod Highland lights being lcr compass XV. by
N. half N., distance 95 miles. She had lost her rudder, both bower anchors, a set of
sails, and 4 boats. Was drifting then N. by W. Send to her assistance without
delay the largest and stron gest tugs you can provide. I would suggest tbat a stealner
from Boston be dispatched to lay by the Vermont until two powerfnl tngs reach her
from New York. A duplicate of this I telegraphed to Commodore Hudson, navy
yard, Boston. I proceed to Boston by first conveyance.
A. S. BALDWIN, by E. A. BIRNIE,
Acting Assistant Paymaster and Storekeeper.
COMMANDANT NAVAL STATION, New York.

	The Dacotah is ordered to proceed and a tug sent for. The Monitor
will not be ready for a trial trip until Monday.
H.	PAULDING-.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


Order of commandant navy yard, New York, to Commander McKinstry, U. S. Navy, com-
manding U. S. S. Dacotah, to proceed to the relief of the U. S. ship Vermont.

NAvY YARD, New York, March 1, 1862.
	CAPTAIN: Proceed with the greatest possible dispatch to the relief of
the U.S. ship Vermont. Accompanying this [is] a telegram from the pay-
master of that ship. When he left her on the 27th ultimo, she was 95
miles from Cape Cod, the Highland lights bearing W. by N. ~ N., and
the ship, with the loss of rudder,both bower anchors, and 4 boats, was
drifting N. W. by W. Subsequently, as the wind here was strong from
the northward and westward, the ship must have drifted to the south-
ward and eastward, and it is now so moderate that the ship may not
be distant from where the paymaster left her.
	It is not improbable that assistance will have been sent from Boston
before you can reach the locality indicated. Be prompt and zealous,
and when yonr services are no longer necessary, retnrn to this port and
report yonr proceedings preparatory to obeying your orders from the
Department.
	I have sent for the tug .4ehilles to aid you in the rescue and safe
return of the Vermont to the port of Boston.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
H.	PAULDING-,
Commandant.
	~Commander J. P. MOKrNSTRY
Commanding U. IS. S. Dacotah.]


Report of the commandant navy yard, Boston, of measures employed for the relief of U. S.
ship Vermont.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE,
Navy Yard, Boston, March 2, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your telegram
relative to the Vermont, and have to state in reply that immediately
upon the receipt of Acting Assistant Paymaster Birnies telegram las

Page 337

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	337

evening (a copy of which is herewith enclosed) every effort was made
to obtain a steamer and tugs to send to her relief, and we finally suc-
ceeded in engaging the steamer AS1aXOn, which runs to Philadelphia, and
two tugs. The latter have leftfor the cape. The Saxon was discharging
cargo, and had to fill bunkers and put an extra quantity of coal in her
hold for this service, and she will l)e off to-night. I have sent to the
Vermont a suit of sails and all the additional tow ropes and hawsers
which can be required.
	Lieutenant Spicer, Boatswain Grace and Ma
hams will go in the Saxon.	sters Mate Henry Wil-
The Aroostook has been ordered to cruise in the vicinity of the place
where the Vermont was last seen, not longer than two or three days,
and if she falls in with her to remain by until relief reaches her, and
then proceed to Ship Island without delay in obedience to your orders.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. L. HUDSON,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.


[Telegram.]

(Received March 3, 1862, from Boston.)
	Mr. Birnie is here from the Vermont. He informs me she has not
struck or touched bottom, and does not leak; rudder gone, and suit of
sails blown away. Kensington had her in tow until 7:30 oclock Mon-
day night, since which time the Kensington has not been heard from.
WM. L. HUDSON,
Commandant Yard.
Hon. G. WELLES.



[Telegram.]


(Received March 3, 1862, from New York.)
	I can charter the Baltic for $1,500 a day, the Government taking
the risk of the ship at $275,000. She can not leave until to-morrow.
I have authorized the ships being coaled, but want authority from the
Department to charter before 1 make the contract. Please reply
quickly.
H.	PAIJLDJNc~,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


[Telegram.]


NEW YORK, March 3, 1862.
	Your telegram of this day is received. By mine of this morning I
meant to convey that the owners of the Baltic require the Government
to take the usual marine risk, as well as war risk. The steamer is
coaling day and night, and if not chartered I ani to pay them expense
	123A	2

Page 338

338	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

of taking out the coal. Be pleased to instruct me without delay. The
Monitor made her trial trip to-day, and is in all respects satisfactory.
She goes forward with good weather.
II.	PAULDINO-,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy.


Report of commandant navy yard, New York, of departure of vesselsthe U. S. S. Dacotah to
the relief of the U. S. S. Vermont.

NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, March 3, 1862.

	SIR:	I have received the Departments telegram of the 2d instant.
The Cayuga went to sea on the 27th instant. The Dacotah left yester-
day morning for the purpose of rendering assistance to the Vermont.
The Oneida also went yesterday on trial trip, as also the Octorara.
	The Monitor, with a commission on board to report on her perform-
ance, left the yard this morning for the lower bay.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, ~ PAULDINQ

Commandant.
[Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.]

	P. S.I dispatched the steamer L. Boardman yesterday to search
for the Vermont.


[Telegram.]


(Received March 4, 1862, from New York.)
	Your dispatch of this date is received at 1:45 p. m. I telegraphed
to the Department last evening that the owners of the Baltic refused
to take the usual marine risk. Capt. Comstock has just left me. He
says you may put an officer on board the Baltic, but that the Govern-
ment must assume the marine and war risk. The ship will be ready
to leave this evening. Be pleased to instruct me.
H.	PATJLDING,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy.



Report of Commander Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Vermont, of damage to
that ship in gale of February 24, 1862, near Cape Cod light.

U.	S. SHIP VERMONT,
At Sea, long. 680 8 W., tat. 380 45 N., Thursday, March 6, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to inforni you that on the eveniiig of the 24th
of February, when near Cape Cod light, this ship was struck by a
violent northwest squall, and, refusing to obey her helm, broached to,
and in a few minutes had her sails torn from the yards. In the belie

Page 339

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	839

that we should drift upon Cape Cod beach in a few minutes, by the
advice and wish of the coast pilot, who had been ordered to this ship
and who was familiar with the locality, I anchored in 24 fathoms water.
The gale continued with unprecedented violence for upwards of fifty
hours. During this time the ship drifted nearly 100 miles to the east-
ward and near Georges Shoal. The ships iron tiller, 6 inches square,
snapped short off at the rudder head, and in a few moments the rudder
was torn from the sterupost and broke entirely adrift from the ship.
A drag was constructed and launched overboard, and the cable slipped
in an effort to cast the ships head so as to clear the shoals and stand
to the southward.
	Soon after the schooner Flying Mist, of Gloucester, Mass., was dis-
covered and spoken, and was signaled to our assistance, when an
arrangement was effected with the captain to convey Naval Storekeeper
I3iruie to the nearest port to report the condition of the ship, and he
accordingly left at noon of the 27th ultimo, since when strong northerly
gales have prevailed, with the exception of part of two days. All efforts
to control the ships course known to seaman have failed, and she is
driven hither and thither beyond the control of any power on board of
her.
	On the 1st instant the schooner J. ill. Chapman, of New London,
Conn., Captain A. J. Chapman, was attracted by our signals of distress
and came to our assistance, and an agreement was made with him to
lay by us, which lie has done up to the present time, and I now dispatch
him to the nearest port with this letter. This last-mentioned vessel
was employed with the hope and expectation that easterly winds would
drift us to the vicinity of some one of the ports adjacent to New York,
where information could be given of our locality. The winds, however,
that have prevailed have been from the northward and westward, which
have defeated the expectation. Our drift during the prevalence of the
N. W. wind has been nearly due south and upon the meridian of 68~
longitude W. from Greenwich. The probabilities are that for the ensu-
ing five or six days the ship will be drifting between the parallels of
latitude 350 and 390, near the before-mentioned longitude of 68g. The
officers and crew have suffered greatly from frost, privation, and over-
exertion, and more than 50 of the crew are prostrated, chiefly by being
frost-bitten, our decks and rigging having been much of the time cased
in ice.
	A large proportion of the crew being composed of landsmen and
boys, the few seamen on board have made extraordinary exertions in
saving the ship. I have received from officers and crew generally
proml)t and efficient service. Great embarrassment has been experi-
enced and much additional labor imposed upon the physical resources
of the crew by the inefficiency of the pumps to free the ship from water,
great quantities of which accumulated upon the berth deck, the ship
being so deeply laden as to render the passing off of the water throngh
the scuppers impossible, thereby making it necessary to pass the
water in buckets to the deck above by hand. All the sick were driven
from the apartment appropriated to them, and taken in the wardroom
and cabin. The great violence of the gale caused almost every movable
article in the ship to be broken from the fastenings; and among other
considerable damage sustained, all the medical stores in the surgeons
department were entirely destroyed. The defective model of the ship,
or her great depth of water (24 feet 8 inches), or perhaps both causes
combined, renders her almost, if not entirely, unmanageable, unless she
is towed by powerful steaniers in a seaway

Page 340

340	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I enclose a diagram indicating the course of our drift, and latitude
and longitude of such day, and also a copy of the assistant surgeons
report for to-day, the surgeon being ill.
	Very respectfully, your obedient,	AUGS. ~. BALDWIN,
	Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy, Washington, D. C.


[Telegram.]

(Received March 8, 1802, from Boston.)
	Dacotah arrived for coal. San Jacinto reported coming in. They
have heard nothing from Vermont. Saxon still searching. Vessel
reported last night merchautman.
WM. L. HUDSON,
Commandant Navy Yard.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy.


Report of Commander McKinstry, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Dacotah, of cruise in search
of U. S. ship Vermont.

U.	S. S. DACOTAH,
Boston, March 8, 1862.
	SIR: In compliance with your order of the 1st instant, this stearner
cast off from the navy yard at 10:30 a. m. on the 2d, and proceeded
through Long Island Sound. At 10:30 p. m. we passed Gull Island
light. The following were our positions at meridian of the dates.
The weather has been cloudy and cold, the 7th instant only affording
clear observations:
	March 3. Latitude, 400 49 N.; longitude, 700 02 W.
	March 4. Latitude, 40~ 12 N.; longitude, 680 05 W.
	March 5. Latitude, 41~ 27 N.; longitude, 640451W.
	March 6. Latitude, 40~ 43 N.; longitude, 660 16 W.
	March 7. Latitude, 40~ 54 N.; longitude, 670 46 W.
	March 8. Cape Cod bore S. E. by S.
	On the 4th instant, at 4 p. in., latitude 400 14, longitude 670 31, in
a fresh gale from the southward and westward, a boat from this ship
brought from the wreck of the English schooner Idalia the crew, named
as follows: William Welch, master; William Jeffers, mate; Robert
Jamieson, seaman; James Nixon, seaman; Henry George, seaman;
Dennis Keith, boy.
	The Idalia was dismasted on the 25th ultimo, some 55 miles N. E. of
Nantucket. According to the masters account, she was seven and one-
half days drifting 135 miles S. E. by S.
	From his statement it would appear that the disaster to the Vermont
occurred about the time his vessel was dismasted. He represents it as
having been a violent gale, which no canvas could withstand. After
replenishing the coal and water and a few stores, this ship will be
ready for sea.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	J. P. MOKINSTRY,
	Commodore HIRAM PAULDING,	Commander.

Commandant Navy Yard, New York

Page 341

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISEI~SUNION.
341
[Telegram.]


(Received March 10, 1862, from New York.)
	Schooner J. IC. Chapman arrived with letters from Vermont. Lay by
her for five days, rendering her assistance. March 0, latitude 380 45/
N., longitude 680 8 W. Brought letters. Ship drifting S. S. E. ~
2 knots, at the mercy of the wind and sea; entirely helpless; rudder
and sails gone; requires immediate and powerfal assistance.
	H. PAULDING,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Gommandant Yard.
&#38; cretary Navy.


[Telegram.]

(Received March 12, 1862, from Brooklyn.)
	This morning at daylight the steamer Tonta sailed in search of the
Vermont. To-morrow morning, as soon as coaled, the steamer Blackstone
goes in search.
	H. PAULIDING-,

Commandant.
Hon. G. WELLES.


Letter from Lieutenant Blake, U. S. Navy, executive officer U. S. frigate Sabine, to Captain Ring.
gold, U. S. Navy, commanding same vessel, conveying order from Flag.Offlcer Goldsborough
to proceed in search of U. S. ship Vermont.

U.	S. FRIGATE SABINE,
Lynn Haven Bay, Va., March 12, 18626:30 p. m.
	SIR: Agreeably with your orders, J proceeded from this place in the
steamer Freeborn to Hampton Roads to communicate with the flag-
officer commanding.
	On my arrival J went~ on board the flagship Minnesota, and was
directed by Flag-Officer Goldsborough to return immediately with verbal
orders for you to proceed wIthout delay in search of the U. S. ship Ver-
mont, taking the steamer Baltic with you, at the same time giving me
the enclosed order, which I supposed to be an extract of a telegraphic
dispatch from the honorable Secretary of the Navy.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
H.	C. BLAKE,
First Lieutenant and Executive Officer.
Captain CADWALADER RING-GOLD
Commanding ~3abine.
[Enclosure.]
MARCH 12, 1862.
	On the 6th instant Vermont was seen in latitude 380 45 N., longitude
680 08 W., drifting S. S. E. ~ E., 2 knots, at the mercy of wind and sea,
entirely helpless. Rudder and sails gone. Tow her into Port Royal, or
nearest port if preferable.
Most respectfully,
L.	M. GOLDSBOROUGH,
Flag- Officer.
Captain RING-GOLD,
~2ommanding U. S. Frigate Sabine

Page 342

342	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Instructions of Captain Ringgold, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. frigate Sabine, to Captain 3.
3.	Comstock, commanding chartered steamer Baltic, regarding search for U. S. ship Vermont.

U.	S. FRJA~ATE SABINE,
At Sea, March 13, 1862.
	DEAR SIR: I enclose to you a reduced copy of the Atlantic, indicat-
ing the position of the Vermont on the 6th instant, to wit, latitude 380
45 N.; longitude 68~ 8 W.; also her position to-day, allowing her a
daily drift of 20 miles, S. S. E. ~ E., distant about 360 miles from us
to-day. If you will proceed with all dispatch, without regard to my
movements, steering a little to the southward of the Vermonts position
to-day, I will endeavor to join you at the earliest moment.
	My present plan is to cruise north of Bermuda, and to the eastward
and westward, on each tack, say 60 miles, and it may be that I shall
look in there for information. Should you deem it advisable, in the
event of my not hilling in with you very soon, I request you to do the
same; also, without delaying on your way to the Vermonts probable
position, communicate with any vessels you may fall in with, as you may
gain some tidings of iler.
	My orders are very brief from Flag-Officer Goldsboroughsimply an
extractof a telegraphic dispatch frointhe Secretary of the Navy, in view
of the importance, however, of the discovery and rescue of the Vermont,
I shall not hesitate to assume any necessary responsibility, and in the
event of your exhausting your supplies I will, when we meet, authorize,
and hereby do authorize, you to procure coal and all other necessaries at
Bermuda, in order that we may make as thorough a search as liossible.
Salt provisions I can furnish in any quantity from my ship, and what-
ever else you may require.
	I am thankful to you for the great assistance rendered my ship by the
Baltic on our way from New York, and regret not having the oppor-
tunity to pay my respects to you in person.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CADWALABER IRINGGOLD,
Captain, Commanding Sabine.
Captain COMSTOCK,
ASteamer Baltic.


Reportof Commander Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Vermont, of intention to
proceed to Port Royal, S. C., with the assistance of chartered steamer Saxon.


U.	S. Snip VERMONT,
At Sea, Lat. 360 32 N., Long. G4~ 50 W., March 15, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you that the steamer Saxon, sent to
onr assistance, reached us to-day. The steamer Aroostook, Lieutenant
Commanding Beaumont, which has been in company with us for the
past nine days, having suffered considerab]e damage, I have left it to
the discretion of Lieutenant Beaumont in respect to his future move-
ments. He concludes to put into the nearest port for repairs, and in
the event of reaching port in safety will inform you of the present con-
dition of the Vermont.
	On the 12th instant a jury rudder was launched, but became unserv-
iceable in a short time and was taken on board and alterations com-
menced, when the Saxon arrived. She having brought a spare rudder,
we are now endeavoring to get it on board, but experience much diffi-
culty in so doing, from the fact of its having been launched overboar

Page 343

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	343

from the Saxon prematurely. The condition of the crew is much
improved since my last communication, the sick list having decreased
about one-half.
	My present intention is to proceed to Port Royal, which port I
expect to reach in five or six days, with the assistance of the Saxon.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
AUG. S. BALDWIN,
Commander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


[Telegram.]


(Received March 21, 1862, from New York.)
	Baltic has returned, having failed to find the Vermont. Owners are
coaling her. Shall I dispatch her again in search ~ Captain Corn-
stocks report will be forwarded by mail.
H.	PAULDING,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


Letter from commandant navy yard, New York, to Secretary of the Navy, forwarding report
of Captain 3. 3. Comstock, commanding chartered steamer Baltic.

NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, March 21, 1862.

	SIR: For the information of the Department I enclose Captain Corn-
~ report of his search in the steamer Baltic for the Vermont. The
owners of the Baltic are recoaling the ship, and I have to ask the
instructions of tho Department as to sending her again on this service.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
II.	PAULDING,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.

[Enclosure.]

STEAMSHIP BALTIC,
New York Harbor, March 21,1862.
	SIR: I beg to announce to you the arrival of this ship at this port
from a search, per order of Captain iRinggold, of the frigate Sabine, for
the U. S. S. Vermont, disabled at sea. After towing the frigate Sabine
to Hampton Roads and from thence to sea, in pnrsuance of instruc-
tion from Captain Itinggold, I ran to the eastward and made a thorough
search for the Vermont between the parallels of 36~ and 400 N. and
between the meridians of 610 and 67~ W., with out finding the ship or
any traces of her. I have spoken several vessels, but could learn
nothing from them either in relation to her. Captain Ringgold in his
instructions to me suggested the propriety of touching at Bermuda if
stores or coal should be required for a longer search than we were pro-
vided for, which at first I determined to do, but upon reflection deemed
it more expedient to return to New York and report to you, for the
following reasons, which I trust will meet your views:
	The distance to New York from the probable position of the missing
ship is not much greater than to Bermuda, with much greater oppo

Page 344

344	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSIJNION.

tunities of hearing from her than at the latter place. Again, the facili-
ties for dispatching the ship for a second search are far better and
more economical, as also your Department have the opportunity of
giving such instructions as they may desire for the more efficient per-
formance of the service, as well as electing if it is desirable ~or not to
continue the search.
	This ship can sail in thirty-six hours for any length of time, andl
will await your orders. I spoke the Sabine on Tuesday at 8.30 a. in., in
latitude 390 9, longitude 630 5, standing to theN E i
tinue the search in that direction.	. ., ntending to con-
    Respectfully, your obedient servant,
	Jos. J. CoMSToCK.
	Commandant H. PAIJLDING,
Navy Yard, New York.



[Telegram.]


(Received March 22, 1862, from Brooklyn.)
	The Baltic will leave to-morrow morning. The provisions will be
sent at once to Hampton Roads.
	H. PAULDING,
Commandant Navy Yard.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy.


[Telegram.]


(Received March 23, 1862, from Boston navy yard.)
	Saxon returned here last night. Reports Vermont left in good con-
dition, all sails bent. She received the rudder from Philadelphia and
has lost it; otherwise in perfect order. Is trying to make her way to
Port Royal. Shall the Saxon be sent again with the Virginias rudder,
which can be fixed in a short time ~ Will report by letter this evening.
Answer by telegraph.
WM. L. HUDSON,
Gommandant.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


Report of Commander Almy, U. S. Navy, for commandant navy yard, New York, of the return of
chartered steamer Blackstone from search for U. S. S. Vermont; extract of log enclosed.


NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, April 8,1862.
	SIR: I have to inform the Department that the steamer Blackstone,
chartered for the purpose of searching for the U. S. ship Vermont,
returned yesterday after an unsuccessful cruise. I enclose herewith
an extract of the log book of the steamer.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	J. ALMY,
Commander, for Commandant.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington

Page 345

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
345
[Enclosure.]

	Steamer Blackstone, I. E. Barstow, master, from a cruise in search of
the Vermont, left New York March 23 and cruised as far east as longi-
tude 59 and between the parallels of 340 and 390 IN.
	March 28.Passed large quantities of wreck stuff.
	March 29.Heavy gale, lasting thirty-six hours.
	April 1.Heavy gale corn. 2 [sic] ending N.W., increasing to a hnrri-
cane, doing ns some damage by shifting cargo, provisions, etc.
	April 6.Heavy gale, with rain, thunder, and lightning, and very
heavy sea.



Letter from commandant navy yard, New York, to Secretary of the Navy, transmitting report
of Captain 3. 3. Comstock, commanding chartered steamer Baltic, of search for U. S.
ship Vermont.

NAVY YARD, NEW YORK,

April 14, 1862.
	SIR: I enclose herewith the report of the commander of the steam-
ship Baltic of his cruise in search of the U. S. ship Vermont.
Very respectfully, your obedient Servant,
H. PAULDING,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.

[Enclosure.]


STEAMSHIP BALTIC,
New York, April13, 1862.
	SIR: I beg to inform you of the arrival of this ship, after an unsuc-
cessful cruise of twenty days for the Vermont, over that part of the
ocean where experience of the usual winds, weather, and cnrrents
would warrant the search being made. We have experienced much
heavy and thick weather, during which little could be done but hold
our own, yet we have steamed over 3,000 miles, and spoken many ves-
sels, without learning anything of the ship, excepting a very vagae
report from a Scotch bark of a large ship being in distress in the
longitnde of 550, to which point I cruised, but saw nothing.
	On the 7th instant I ran into Bermuda, and there learned from the
officers of her Majestys gunboat Landrail, late from New York, that
on Sunday, the 30th of March, 50 miles N. N. W. from the northern-
most point of Bermuda, they saw a ship of the line and a frigate in
company standing to the westward, which I was led to believe might
be the Vermont and the Sabine. Since that date there has been much
strong easterly wind. I immediately left port again and worked to the
westward of the mouth of the Chesapeake, but seeing nothing have
returned to port.
	The captain of the schooner Olirer 11. Booth, who was on board the
Vermont several hours on the 15th of March, and who is now in Ber-
muda, informed me that the ship was in good order and condition,
excepting her rudder, althongh the one they had made and used for
several days answered a good pnrpose, but it was then nnshipped to
repair and to ship the one bronght by the Saxon, which was then
alongside, and they were preparing to ship it. From the report of th

Page 346

346	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

ship given me by this captain, 1 have no doubt of the safe arrival at
port of the Vermont.
	1 have seen no other vessel in search of the ship.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
Jos. J. COMSTOCK,
Commander.
	Commandant HIRAM PAULDING~
Navy Yard, New York.


Report of commandant navy yard, New York, of return of U. S. frigate Sabine from search
for U. S. ship Vermont.

NAVY YARD, NEW YORK,
April 17, 1862.
	SIR: I have to report the return to this station yesterday afternoon
of the U. S. frigate Sabine, Captain Ringgold. I also report the arrival
this day of the U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp, Acting Volunteer Lieuten-
ant II. S. Eytinge, from a cruise.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
H.	PAULDING-,
Commandant.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Report of Captain Ringgold, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. frigate Sabine, regarding the find
ing and condition of the U. S. ship Vermont.

U.	S. FRIc~ATE SABINE,
New York, April 16, 1862.
	SIR:. I have the gratification to announce to the Department my safe
arrival at this port from a perfectly successful search after the missing
line-of-battle ship Vermont.
	I left Lynn Haven Bay on the evening of the 12th ultimo, in company
with the Baltic (as reported in mydispatch,per ship Union, 15th March,
at sea), from which, however, it was thought best to separate next day
~11 pursuit of the interesting duty assigned us. My course was shaped
so as to intercept the Vermont in her supposed drift S. S. E., as reported
on the 6th of March by the Chapman, in latitude 350 45 N., longitude
670 50 W. Heavy S. S. E. and S. W. gales carried me further to the
N. E. than I desired, and you will perceive by the diagram (hereto
annexed) that the Sabine crossed her path of the 8th, and intersected her
position of the 12th March about 3 a. m. of the 16th, on which day the
wind abated and we hauled to the southward and eastward oii a line
with the Vermonts assumed drift, at a distance of 100 miles to the east-
ward and as near her track as the winds would permit.
	On the 17th I held a consultation with Mr. Blake, executive officer,
and the acting masters of the ship, all experienced seamen and quite
familiar with the weather, winds, and currents of our coast. The posi-
tion of the steamer San Francisco at the point of her memorable wreck
in 1853, and also of her abandonment, were projected, and upon the
supposition, as reported, that the Vermont was a wreck, without masts
or rud~1er, at the mercy of the winds and currents, it was conceive

Page 347

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	347

that she would probably he acted on by like causes, and drift to the
E. N. E. It was decided to run by daylight (laying to at night), and
traverse alternately on N. W. and S. E. tacks nntil we had thoroughly
examined the space between our position of the 16th and the second
position of the &#38; tn Francisco. On the morning of the 18th (blowing
heavy) the Baltic hove in sight, and passed near us, steering N W.,
making signal, Have seen nothing. Strong northwest winds pressed
us to the N. E., to the last position of the &#38; tn Francisco, without the
possibility of traversing the intervening space referred to. I was con-
fident that the Baltic and $axon would also do this portion of the good
work faithfully, and therefore felt less disappointment, concluding to
return to the Vermont in her possible erratic transit to the southward
and eastward. But the winds were adverse, and again controlled my
movements in a great degree. Assuming a daily drift for her, I sought to
steer to southward and westward. Fair progress was made on the 20th,
but after this good run, up to the day of the fortunate discovery of the
missing ship, the Sabine was struggling with the elements in their equi-
noctial strength.
	The gulf, with its northwest and westerly gales, fully sustained its
stormy character. The ship, however, proved fully adequate to the
task, and, though slowly, she made her way southerly with a seeming
instinct that was truly surprising.
	While 3ontending with adverse winds, a hazy sky, and limited hori-
zon, you will perceive by the diagram that the mysterious ship and the
&#38; tbine were gradually approximating and crossing each others track
at nearlythe same periods. Their positions at times were identical (show-
ing that with a clear horizon the two ships would have been visible to
each other from aloft) up to the moment of the final happy contact,
that appeared like the secret action of gravitation or the merciful inter-
vention of Providence.
	On the 21st, at 12:30 p. in., we spoke the brigantine Samoset, three
days from New York, which was boarded by Lieutenant Blake, who
procured (as you will perceive by his report, hereto annexed) important
intelligence. My strong conviction was that the ship mentioned therein
as seen the day previous was the Vermont, bnt could not be assured of
her identity from the fact that the masts were standing, a smokestack
stood torward of the mainmast, and no sail set. Projecting her posi-
tion, with her head to the northward, she was on the meridian of Ber-
muda and Halifax. From these appearances I supposed her to be an
Eiglish screw line-of-battle ship steering for the latter place. It will
presently appear that the description of the ship was perfect, for it
proved to be the Vermont. From Captain Baldwin we learned that the
smokestack of the condenser was standing on that day, and had been
removed only a day or two before we discovered her.
	The night of the 28th proved a most anxious one; the storms of the
season seemed to culminate and rage fearfully; the squalls of hail and
rain were violent. When morning returned the wind moderated and
changed suddenly to the southward and eastward with heavy rain and
dense fog. Carrying forth the Vermonts position since the 6th March,
and comparing it with the AS~amosets report of the ship seen, it was
obvious the Vermont could not be very remote. I therefore put the
ship under easy sail, intending to stand to northward and westward
on her reverse course and traverse the sea in that direction. At 8 a.
m. I spoke the American bark Hannibal from Philadelphia, hoping to
learn favorable tidings, but was disappointed. At this moment of
despondence the ships were actually within a short distance of eac

Page 348

~48	OPERAIIIONS OP ~PHE ORUISERStJNION.

other. At 2:50 p. m. a squall to the southward suddenly lifted, and
for a moment presented a partially clear horizon, wheii lijehard Lewis,
quartermaster, on the lookout, descried a large vessel heading east with-
out sail set, and her mizzen topmast gone. The excitement on board,
as you may suppose, was very great; intense solicitude was felt by all
for the discovery and safety of the ship. To the practiced eye of the
vigilant lookout 1 ascribe the discovery. At a glance I knew the
stranger to be identical with the ship seen by the &#38; tmo8et (except the
smokestack). It was the Vermont, and at 5 p. in. we passed within
hail and greeted her with hearty cheers.
	Captain Baldwin, in answer to my questions, reported all well on
board and the ship not leaking. The strong wind and the agitated
state of the sea at the time forbade all intercourse by means of boats.
I could only convey the assurance that we would stand by him and at
the earliest moment supply all his wants. As the &#38; tbine passed close
under the stern her shattered look and lost rudder too plainly exposed
the ravages of the storm she had experienced.
	From accounts of the injuries sustained we were prepared to find
the ship in a desperate condition, and probably abandoned; when first
discovered, she was heading S. E. without a sail set or aiiy signs of
life; our colors were displayed long before we received a response.
The ship was at the mercy of the winds and waves, and when, in the
obscurity of the atmosphere, a flag of some sort became visible (whether
Union up or down could not be determined), and signs of life on board
were evident, language could but feebly describe the emotions that
filled our hearts. In her discovery, all hands forgot the storms encoun-
tered during the anxious search.
	Throughout the succeeding night I kept close company,and each
ship wore bright lights, drifting southeasterly, as the winds and waves
entirely controlled the course of the rudderless Vermont. Early next
morning, the weather permitting, I dispatched the boats with an officer,
together with the boatswain, carpenter, and sailmaker, to examine into
the condition of the ship, ordering Captain Baldwin to repair on board
the iS1abine in a return boat. From him I was gratified to learn that his
ship was in much better condition than could have been expected under
the circumstances.
	He had constructed a jury rudder, which he had applied, and it had
worked successfully during a heavy gale of two days, but the lower
fastenings, being made of hawser instead of chain, had parted; for-
tunately it was hauled on board and the hawser replaced with stout
chain. For eleven days no occasion had offered sufficiently favorable
to replace it. The carpenter of my ship, Mr. Burcham, reported very
favorably as to its construction and the fixtures, etc., for securing it.
	Captain Baldwin presented requisitions for sails, rigging, and stores,
all of which were promptly supplied. The boatswain took with him
a number of men from the &#38; tbine and bent the sails, and by evening all
assistance needed had been rendered, and every preparation (except
the shipping the jury rudder) made for proceeding to Port Royal,
whither I determined to convoy her.
	On the 30th, the weather having moderated, the sea and swell sub-
siding, I signaled to the Vermont to make exery possible exertion to
ship the jury.rudder. The Bermudas were close under our lee, the
drift and currents were setting both ships bodily on them, and there
were no charts on board that defined the dangerous reefs surrounding
those islands. I felt great apprehensions lest 1 could not weather the
islands, in which contingency to escape them it would become nece

Page 349

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	~349

sary to pass to the eastward, if that were practicable. After much
delay and labor, the rudder was shipped, aud before sunset the ships
were happily on a course to the westward (the rudder working well),
and at a rate per hoar that carried us 45 miles clear of the Il3ermudas.
	On the 31st good progress was made, with further favorable reports
of the working of the rudder. At 1 a. m. on the 1st, the wind
changed suddenly to the N. W. with a severe squall, accompanied by
heavy rain, which lasted until daylight; it then commenced to blow a
brisk gale at N. W. The two ships Separated unavoidably, and at 4
a. m. lost sight of each other. I cruised cautiously for two days, to
leeward of the position of the Vermont when last seen, and searched
the part of the sea where she must have drifted, in the event of any
accident to or loss of the rudder.
	The wind was fair for Port Royal, and knowing Captain Baldwins
desire to carry his ship, unattended, to her destination after his mis
fortune, and satisfied also from my own experience of three days that
thejury rudder was adequateto its task, I entertained no fears that the
Vermont would safely gain the harbor of Port Royal. To have accom-
panied her there, after escaping and passing clear of the Bermudas,
would have been simply superfluous. I therefore decided to shape my
course for New York, in order to convey to the Department, at the
earliest moment, intelligence of the result of our labors in pursuit of the
missing ship. This was promptly transmitted through the telegraph
at Sandy Hook.
	I am deeply impressed with the goodness of Providence during our
special mission. Heaven smiled upon our exertions, in spite of unfavora-
ble weather and unremitting heavy gales.
	The ship met with no accident or injury whatever. The only painful
event was the loss of an excellent man, Michael OBrien, ordinary sea-
man, who, while on the lookout on the fore-topgallant yard, doubtless
in his eagerness to discover theobject of our search, lost his balance and
fell to the deck, fractured his skull, and expired instantly.
	I am truly thankful to the officers and men of my ship for the hearty
zeal they evinced during the protracted search, and their faithful coop-
eration hi assisting to restore so fine a ship to the Navy, and the officers
and men of the Vermont to their anxious families and friends.
	In conclusion, permit me to assure you I feel highly honored that
the iDepartment should have confided to my hands so interesting a
duty.
I am, sir, with great respect, your obedient servant,
CADWALADER RINGGOLD,
Captain, Commanding Sabine,
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

&#38; cretary of the iYavy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander Baldwin, U. 8. Navy, commandingU. S. ship Vermont, of movements of
that vessel from February 24 to April 12, 1862.

U. S. SHIP VERMONT
Port Royal, AS~. C., April 19, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to submit the following details attendant upon
the passage of this ship from Boston to this port:
	The Vermont left Boston on the morning of the 24th of February last,
in tow of two tugboats, the steamer Kensington in company wit

Page 350

350	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

orders to accompany and tow the Vermont to this port; at 8:30 oclock
a. in. she took us in tow. At noon of that day, air light and water
smooth, steering E. S. E. At 2 oclock p. m. took two reefs iii
topsails and set the courses (mainsail single reefed), jib, and spanker.
During the afternoon thick hazy weather, with rain. At half past
7 oclock p. in., when near Cape Cod light, a heavy sqnall from the
westward accompanied with snow struck the ship; reduced sail to
double-reefed topsails and jibs. The towlines were let go by the
Kensington. The wind increased to a gale from the northwest, of
excessive violence, and the ship refusing to obey her helm broached to
with all after sail furled, and in a few minutes had her sails torn from
the yards.* In the belief that we would drift upon Cape Cod beach,
and by the advice and desire of the pilot, who was familiar with the
locality, I anchored in 24 fathoms water; in accomplishing which the
starboard anchor was lost and the port one let go and the ship brought
up. During the night a great quantity of water had accumulated on
the berth deck, and the mess chests which had broken from their fast-
enings were floating across the deck at every roll of the ship, also the
cradles in the sick bay, etc. About 11 oclock p.m., a port on the star-
board side of the sick bay was forced open, by which great quantities of
water entered, sweeping away bulkheads, drawers, etc., and destroy-
ing all the medical stores in the surgeons department. Being unable
to clear the ship of water by the pumps, men were employed over forty
hours with buckets freeing the berth deck of water. The gale contin-
ued with unprecedented violence for upward of fifty hours, during
which time the ship drifted nearly 100 miles to the eastward, and near
Georges Shoal. At3 oclock on the morning of the 26th of February the
ships iron tiller ,6 inches square, snapped short off at the rudderhead,
and in a few moments the rudder was torn from the sternpost and broke
entirely adrift from the ship. A drag was constructed and launched
overboard and the cable slipped in a fruitless effort to cast the ships
head so as to clear the shoals and stand to the southward.
	A few hours later the schooner Plying Mist was spoken, and an
arrangement effected with her captain to convey Mr. Birnie (store-
keeper) to the nearest port to report the condition of the ship to the Navy
Department. Providentially the ship drifted clear of Georges and
Nantucket shoals. Strong gales and piercing cold prevailed for the
following two weeks.
	On the 1st of March the schooner J. lIT. Chapman, Captain Chapman,
came to our assistance and an arrangement was effected with Captain
Chapman to lay by us and he remained in company until the 6th day
of March, when I dispatched him to the nearest port with advices for
the Navy Department. This schooner was employed in the hope and
expectation that easterly winds would drift us to the vicinity of some of
the ports adjacent to ~ew York, where information could be given of our
locality, and aid afforded us, but after keeping the schooner by US for
the period of five days and the winds prevailing from the northward and
westward, I dispatched her for the nearest port as aforesaid. On the
7th of March a steamer ran down to us and proved to be the U. S. gun-
boat Aroostook, Lieutenant Commanding Beaumont, from Boston,
March 2, sent to our assistance by the commandant of the Boston navy
	* On tlie night of the gale of February 24, soon after the sails were blown away.
the waist, quarter, and stern boats were blown away, the quarter boat taking with
it her davits. Very few articles of furniture in the cabin escaped serious damage
or eutire destruction. Chairs, tables, sofa, table furniture, and stores were thrown
pell mcli together, hither and thither. I received myself a severe contusion, from
whicli I continue to suffer

Page 351

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
351
yard; the only aid she could afford us, however, was to lay by and
assist us to wear ship, which otherwise could not be accomplished.
During five or six days subsequent to the arrival of the Aroostook
strong gales continued, by which the Aroostook lost her- smokestack
and was otherwise damaged. In the meantime we constructed a rud-
der, which was ready to be shipped as soon as weather would permit,
sails were repaired, rigging set up, etc.
	The rudder was shipped March 13, and worked well until noon of the
following (lay, when the heel guy chafed off. We succeeded in getting
it on board and improving upon it. The steamer Saxon, Captain Mat-
thews, with Lieutenant Spicer, U. S. Navy, on board, having been dis-
patched from Boston by Captain Hudson to our relief:, reached us March
15.	The Saxon brought us some sails and also a rudder. We succeeded
in getting an old mainsail and topgallant sail on board, but the rudder
being of great weight, having some 90 fathoms of chain attached to it,
and having been launched overboard from the Saxon prematurely, at
nightfall, and on the verge of a gale, we were unable to secure it and it
was lost.
	Upon Lieutenant Spicer reporting to me, I directed him to take the
Vermont in tow and proceed in a southwest direction toward Port
Royal, which order he manifested reluctance to obey. Early on the fol-
lowing morning strong gales from the southwest set in when the tow-
lines were let go by the Saxon and she steamed off out of sight. About
4 oclock p. m. of the following day (March 17) she again appeared in
sight and stood toward us, when we endeavored to drift a hawser to
her which she would not pick up. She remained in company with us
until the afternoon of the following day, when she again stood off in an
easterly direction. During this interval we several times drifted a line
to her which she neglected to pick up; on one occasion she ran over the
line without making any attempt to grapple it; on another occasion,
having grappled it, steamed up rapidly until it parted, and apparently
determined not to take us in tow, steamed away, after which we saw no
more of her.
	The weather for the ensuing ten days was such as to render shipping
and securing the jury rudder, as altered, impossible; what few sails we
had, however, were repaired, the standing rigging fore and aft set up,
and everything in readi~iess to ship the rudder as soon as the weather
permitted. The sails and rigging being old and rotten were continually
being split and parting, and required the utmost vigilance to be kept
together and serviceable.
	On the 27th following, the U. S. frigate Sabine, Captain Riuggold, fell
in with us. Captain Ringgold supplied us with a maintopsail and a
jib; also with what articles we required in the sailinakers and boat-
swains department, and rendered us prompt and efficient service. The
Sabine remained in company with us until the 1st of April, early on
the morning of which day we experienced a severe gale from the south-
west, and at about midnight parted company with the Sabine, she bear-
ing S. S. W.
	On the 30th of March the jury rudder was shipped, and the same
working successfully, the ship was at once put on her course, her rate
of speed averaging about 6 knots per hour, until the 12th instant, when
we made the light-ship off Port Royal entrance and anchored at 10
oclock p. m.
	During this period the exertions of the boatswain, Mr. Bartlett, and
the sailmakei-, Mr. Joines, have been unremitting and most praise-
worthy. The sick list has been unusually large (upward of 50), man

Page 352

352	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUiSERS -UNION.

of whom were severely frosted during the gale from February 24 to 27.
The few seamen on board were subject to severe duty on account of the
unusual preponderance of light landsmeu and boys. Of those of the
crew who had been shipped as ordinary seamen many were boys, one
of them seventeen years old only and had never been afloat in his life.
Another one informed me that he had not been out of his bed in twelve
months until the day previous to his enlistment. He has been continu-
ally on the sick list since the 11th of February.
	The whole number of sick were taken into the cabin and wardroom,
where they continued until the ship reached mild weather and the sick
bay rendered wholesome, a period of about ten days.
Respectfully, your obedient,
AuG. S. BALDWIN,
Commander, U. S. Ship Vermont.
	Flag-Officer S. F. Du PONT,
Commanding S. Atlantic Blockading Squadron, Port Royal, S. C.




Letter from the U. S. consul, Gibraltar, to Commander Craven, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, relative to complaints against
C. S. S. Sumter.

GIBRALTAR, Sunday, March 2, 18G21O a. m.
	Mv DEAR SIR: I have your note * of yesterday. I have no objection to
lay before the British governor any complaints you may think proper to
make against the Sumter, or upon anything else relating to our public
service. I would, however, remark in reply to the contents of your
note of yesterday that I have great doubts in my own mind whether any
seamen have been shipped on board that rebel steamer. I think the
report originates by a seaman, who I believe to be an American and
discharged some weeks back from a British brig, having by his own
will and accord gone on board of the Sumter, but I have no evidence
yet whether it is merely on a visit or for good. Anyhow 1 did not think
it worth while to notice the matter, particularly as he is an American.
I know that the captain of the port has declared that no sailors would
be permitted to be shipped by the Sumter. He even has refused to
ship some of the Sumters men by foreign vessels, who are still on shore
and who refuse to return to the Sumter, and one of these very meu
whom I saved from being dragged on board of the ~ boat by her
officers, some weeks since, assured me this morning that he felt posi-
tive the Sumter has not shipped any men here. He mentioned the fact
of the seaman referred to above having gone on board the Sumter, but
he even doubted if he had been regularly shipped. With this informa-
tion before you, let me know if you will require me to communicate
with the governor on the subject of your note.
	Be assured that I keep as good a lookout here as my position will
permit, and that I am quite as desirous as your good self to see that
her Majestys proclamation be carried out to the letter, but to lay coni-
plaints without strong grounds might, perhaps, be a wrong policy to
pursue. I have examined several of our boatmen who are constantly
in the bay and passing by the Sumter, and they all seem to think that
no seamen have been enlisted on board the Sumter.
Not found

Page 353

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	353

	I sent you a newspaper to-day with New York telegrams of the 12th,
announcing the destruction of the rebel flotilla at Roauoke Island and
the burning and taking of Elizabeth City after hard fighting.
Yours, very truly,
HORATIO J. SPRACmE.

	Captain CRAVEN,
U.	~. S. Tusearora, oft Algeciras,

	P. S.Excuse this hasty scrawl; I did not wish to detaiii the courier.






Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Moore, U. S. Navy, connnanding
U. S. ship Morning Light, of cruise from January 30 to date.

U.	S. SHIP MORNING LIGHT,
New York, March 2, 1862.
	SIR: Herewith I have the honor to transmit to you an abstract taken
from the log book of the LIT. S. ship Morning Light, nnder my command,
a diagram or chart showing the position of the ship at noon of each
civil day. The red figures indicate the position of the vessels I have
seen during the cruise. I also enclose reports of the proceedings taken
by courts-martial held by my orders during the cruise. Nothing of
importance has occurred since my last dispatch of January 30.
Upon referring to my dispatch of 26th December I find that the
language made use of in regard to the Danish bark Jorgen Lorentzen
is rather vagne if my copy is correct. I say:

	If bound on an honest voyage no injury is done to the owners of the vessel and
cargo, but there is no doubt in my mind of their intention to run into New Orleans
if possible.

	I should have said:

	After due deliberation and consultation with all my officers, who were unanimous
against me, I concluded to send the Jorgen Lorentzcn in to New York, and should it
prove that she was bound on an honest voyage no possible damage can result to
the owners of vessel and cargo. There may a question arise about the violation of
the Danish flag, should I prove to i~e wrong in sending her in, but I presunie nothing
of so serious a nature that it can not be easily remedied. My conviction is that the
vessel is bound to run the blockade, if possible, and that the cargo belongs to
Southern owners, but whether legal evidence can be brought to prove that is
another question.

	I have the honor to report that the ship has proved herself to be a
very fast vessel. She requires some minor a1t~rations and repairs,
which are duly reported to the proper officials. She is very stanch,
and in proper trim and ballast is a very efficient vessel and, with the
addition of 2 pivot guns and a howitzer, I think would be equal nearly
to a third-class sloop. Asking for further instructions,
	I have the honor to remain, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
HENRY T. MOORE,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding.

Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. ~7.
	123A	2

Page 354

354	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Captain Powell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. frigate
Potomac, of interviews with General Prim, chief of Spanish forces,
Commodore Dunlop, R. F., and ilL de SaliquJ, French minister at Vera
Cruz, relative to affairs in Mexico.

U. S. FRIGATE POTOMAC,
Off Vera Cruz, March 2, 1862.
	SIR: The departure of an American trading schooner on the 4th for
New York enables me to add a word or two to my first dispatch, dated
the 19th ultimo.
	I took an early opportunity of making official visits to the chiefs,
civil and military, of the parties combined against Mexico, and first of
all to General Prim, (Jonde de Hens, chief of the Spanish forces and
commanding in chief on shore. He received me with great cordiality,
and detained me for more than an hour listening to an earnest exposi-
tion of his policy and purposes in regard to Mexico. He seemed to be
anxions to impress upon me several leading points of policy which
should govern his conduct, and, first of all, that neither Spain nor her
allies had present or ulterior designs against Mexico touching the
nationality, the soil, the constitution, or the existing administration of
that conntry for any dynastic purpose, and declared emphatically
that the existing unanimity of all classes of Mexicans would be a
barrier sufficient to defeat such purpose if ever entertained; and that
his Government would never have selected him (Prim) to execute it,
for he was hostile to it in every point of view, and known so to be.
	His second in command, General Milans de Bosch, who is a fine old
soldier and speaks English well, was present at the last part of this
friendly interview, and spoke to the same purpose and quite decisively.
	I had an interview with Commodore Dunlop, who commands the
British forces, ashore as well as afloat. Almost his first words touched
upon the vital point of interest between us. He said that happily the
threatened danger of hostilities had passed away; he was glad to see me
here,  for, said he, with the utmost frankness, when I caine down here
I confidently expected that in ten days I should have had my squadron
operating against you on the coast. This acknowledgment will not
fail to convey to you two weighty factsfirst, that the contingent war
orders had been given to the British naval chiefs; secondly, that the
assemblage of the fleet at Vera Cruz, as against Mexico, was only a
cover to the real purpose, to wit, a convenient basis of hostilities
against our line of blockade, the western end of which is only three
days sail from Vera Cruz.
	The British minister was not at home, but I met him at the hotel of
the French admiral. A brief visit to M. de Saliqu~, the French
minister, enabled me to gather that France did not desire to see the
United States weakeued.
	I dined, by invitation of General Prim, on the 22d February, with
the chief civil, military~ and naval officers of the combined forces.
General Prim called the attention of his guests to the fact that the day
was the anniversary of the birthday of Washington, and after an
eloquent eulogium upon the man whose fame and deeds were the com-
mon heritage of mankind, etc., called upon his guests to unite with
him in a toast to his memory, which was rendered with gratifying mani-
festations of regard.
	I shall not prolong this letter further than to say that the French
forces marched to the interior four days since, with the French admiral
at their head. Yesterday General Milans marched with three brigade

Page 355

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
355
of Spaniards on the same route via Orizata [Orizaba?], and the British
forces, less than either, follow immediately under Commodore Dunlop,
the city of Vera Crnz being in the meantime garrisoned by sailors from
the fleet, who were landing yesterday.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
L.	M. POWELL,
Captain.

Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.





Report of Captain Powell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. frigate Poto
mac, relative to combined forces marching to interior of Mexico.

U.	S. FRIGATE POTOMAC,
Off Vera Gruz, ]Jiiarch 3,1862.
	SIR: The combined forces march to the interior, by the way of On-
zata [Orizaba~?J, with the permission of the Mexican Government, which
fact is established by a convention entered into by General Milans and
the Mexican commissioners, of whom Doblado was, I believe, the
principal. The exact terms thereof are riot known; but it is known
that a healthy position in the nplands, beyond the first defenses, which
are to be vacated, is granted by the Mexicans to the expeditionary
forces for the purpose of negotiating a definitive treaty of peace, the
preliminaries of which have already been signed. Besides the papers
herewith enclosed, I have this information directly from General
Milans, who negotiated the preliminary convention. One of the lead-
irig features of it is that the strong places abandoned by the Mexican
forces shall be restored, arid the combined forces shall retire to Vera
Cruz, should the final negotiations for peace fail.
	The professed object of the allies is, first, pecuniary indemnifications
or satisfactory security for the payment of rightful demands, and cer-
tain guaranties against future wrongs and injuries to persons and prop-
erty of the States in question by the Mexicans.
	Under the preliminary articles entered into, the Mexican flag has
been hoisted over the castle amid in the city, jointly with those of the
allies; and this seems to indicate a friendly settlement of the differ-
ences. The English certainly have no heart in this busimiess and will
be satisfied with the execution of a former convention. kno wnasDun-
lops. The French are at issue with the Spaniards about some unknown
matter, and the Spanish General Prim, as also his second, Milans,
declare that they have neither the force nor the desire to push Mexico
to extrenme measures.
	I enclose herewith the fifth number of the Eco, published on the
20th February, and a supplement of the same paper dated the 27th of
the same month, for the information of the Department.
I have the honor to be, sir, respectfully, your obedient servant,
L. M. POWELL,
Captain.

Hon. GIDEON WELLES.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 356

356	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Commander Ridgely, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Santi-
ago de Cuba, retative to capture of sloop 0. K., off Cedar Keys, Eta.

U.	S. S. SANTIAGO DE CUBA,
Key West, March 4, 1862.
	Sju:	I remained in Key West seven days after my last coinmunica-
tion to the Department, of February 6, waiting to hear from the consul
at Havana. Not receiving any communication, I sailed on a cruise in the
gulf; taking on board an extra quantity of provisions, to supply some
of the blockading squadron on the coast of Florida, reported to be on
short allowaiice by Commander Woodhull. Before sailing Flag-Officer
Farragut requested me to take on board two army paymasters, Majors
Watson and Locke, with their treasure, and land them at Ship Islaud.
	During my cruise Itouched at Ship Island, the two passes of Apalachi-
cola, Cedar Keys, and Tampa Bay. Oft Cedar Keys I captured a small
sloop, named the 0. K., with a rebel on board, making his way to St.
Marks. I took the sloop in tow with the intention of handing her over
to the blockading vessel off that place, but in consequence of her bad
condition and the heavy sea running she swamped. The man T shall
hand over to Brigadier-General Brannan, commanding at this place.
	*	*	*	*

I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
	DANIEL B. RIDGELY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Letter from Captain Henry Chads, P. N., to Captain Craven, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, informing him his ship must leave Gib-
raltar twenty-four hours after anchoring.

H.	M. SHIP LONDON,
Gibraltar, March 10, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you that, by the rules laid down by
Earl Russell, her Britannic Majestys secretary of state for foreign
affairs, it will be necessary that the ship under your command should
leave this port within twenty-four hours from the time of anchoring.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
HENRY CHADS,
Captain.
	Commander CRAVEN,
U.	S. S. Tuscarora.


Letter from the governor of Gibraltar to Captain Craven, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, relative to taking in necessary supplies
ana leaving port in twenty-four hours from time of anchoring.


GIBRALTAR, March 10, 1862.
	SIR:	I am not aware of any communication which may have been
made to you by the officer commanding II. M. S. London. There is no
objection to your taking in supplies necessary for the subsistence o

Page 357

OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.	357

youir crew. I understand that your expression, some supplies neces-
sary for the ship under your command, is to be limited to the quota-
tion which I have made from the Earl Russell rules, which have been
communicated to you.
	I request you to notify this permission to the captain of the II. M. S.
London, and I also request that your stay iii Gibraltar may be limited
to period of twenty-four hours from the time of the Tuscaroras
anchoring in this port.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
	W. J. CODRINGTON,
	[Commander CRAVEN,	Lieutenant- aeneral.
U.	S. S. Tuscarora.]



Report of Flag-O~flcer Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. naval forces,
Pacific Ocean, advising the occasional presence of United States vessels
on the South American coast as far as Valparaiso, Chile.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
San Francisco, March 10, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you that we arrived at this port on
the 7th instant, in twenty-font days from Acapulco, being most of the
time, from a scarcity of coal, under canvas, and having adverse winds.
	I have received communications from Commander McDongal, of the
U. S. S. Wyoming, informing me that he towed up the U. S. storeship
Fredonia from Valparaiso, which ship is now safely moored at Callao.
	Commander McDongal, while at Valparaiso, had an interview with
our minister, Mr. Nelson, who informed him that the most cordial feel.
ing toward the U. S. Government existed on the part of Chile, and that
the Chilian authorities would not permit privateers to fit out or receive
any countenance from them. On her way to Panama the Wyoming
touched at Tumbez and Guayaquil, and arrived at Panama February 19.
	A communication received by Commauder McDougal from our min-
ister at Quito, Ecuador, states that the relations with Peru, which some
time since had assumed a threatening character, had now calmed down,
so that the Ecuadoriau Government had reduced its army to a peace
footing; that the presence at Guayaquil of one of our vessels of war
was not now absolutely necessary, but recommends that one ship should
occasionally touch there.
	In the present state of our affairs I think it desirable to send each of
the squadrons in succession to cruise down the coast as far as Valpa-
raiso, touching at the most important places, not only to give security
to our countrymen engaged in business, but to let these South Ameri-
can governments see that, notwithstanding our difficulties at home, we
still have the power to punish any infractions of our treaties and to
afford ample protection to our commerce along their coasts.
	Tbe Gyane was to leave Panama for Valparaiso on the arrival of the
Wyoming. She must have sailed about February 21, and as I directed
the captain of the Saranac to tow her well out of the bay, she will soon
be at Valparaiso.
	The Wyoming will proceed to Acapulco to take the place of the Nar-
ragansett, which vessel I have ordered here for repairs. The St. Marys
is now here,where she has been awaiting our arrival, to effect an
exchange of officers ordered by the Department. She will sail iu a da

Page 358

358	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

or two for a cruise along the coast and in the Gulf of California as far
as Cape Corrientes.
	This ship will go to the navy yard, Mare Island, day after to-morrow,
where she will undergo extensive repairs in her hull and machinery,
both of which are unseaworthy in their present condition.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully,
CHAS. II. BELL,
Flag- Officer, Commanding U. S. Naval Forces, Pacific Ocean.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Report of Commander Pickering, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kear-
sarge, of arrival at Algecir as, enclosing correspondence relative to arrest
of illessrs. Myers and Tunstall at Tangier.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Algeciras, March 12, 1862.
	Sin: I have the honor to report my arrival at this place at 10 p. m.
on the 7th instant, where I found the U. S. steam sloop Tuscarora,
Commander T. A. Craven, blockading the Sumter, lying on the oppo-
site side of the bay at Gibraltar. On arrival here my engines were out
of running order and needing some five days work, but owing to the
state of affairs at Tangier resulting from the arrest of Messrs. Myers
and Tunstall, I deemed it advisable to proceed to that port with Con-
sul J. IDeLong, then on a visit to Gibraltar, which I did on the 10th,
and landed him with a salute of nine guns. I also exchanged a
national salute with the Moorish authorities, and had a very pleasant
and satisfactory interview with the Moorish minister of foreign affairs.
	Returning to Algeciras on the 11th, I hove to off Gibraltar for the
purpose of landing a passenger and dispatches, when I received a
verbal communication from his Excellency the governor of Gibraltar,
through the health officer of the port, requesting to know my reasons
for appearing off that port.
	A copy of my communication to him on this point, as well as his
reply thereto, are respectfully enclosed. I also enclose a communi-
cation from Horatio J. Perry, esq., charge d affaires at Madrid, with
my reply to the same.
	I beg to state that had my engines been in reliable order for chase
I should have sent the Tuscarora to Tangier, and remained myself to
perform what I consider the first object of my instructions.
	The Sumter at present lies at anchor in the port of Gibraltar, with
but a few hours coal on board, and owing to the active exertions of
our consul, Horatio J. Sprague, is cut off from all chance of obtaimming
an additional supply. Some twenty of her men have deserted, and a
greater part of the remainder watching a chance of escape. ii shall
not, however, on these accounts be the less vigilant. I am at present
at work upon [the] eugines, which will in a few days be in perfect
order, and trusting the care of the Sumter to the vigilance and readi-
ness of the Tuscarora,
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERING,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy

Page 359

OPERATIONS OF	THE CRUISERSUNION. 359

[Enclosures.]

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES,
Madrid, March 5, 1862.
	CAPTAIN: A telegraphic dispatch last evening tells me of the arrival
of the Kearsarge at Cadiz. Information has already reached me by
mail that our consul, Mr. DeLono~, was in so me trouble at Taiigier
on account of the arrest of Messrs. Myers and Tan stall, referred to
in my letter of February 26. But as I have subsequent notice that
these persons were safely embarked on board the mo, and had
arrived in her at Algeciras, it is to be hoped that all difficulty has
ceased at Tangier. If unfortunately this should not be the case, you
will allow me to express my opinion that the just and patriotic action
of our consul ought to be sustained at all hazards, and the honor
and authority of oily consulate-general at Tangier must be main-
tained.
	From my information it seems that the Moorish authorities have
from the first been well disposed and their action unobjectionable; the
whole difficulty is supposed to have arisen from the intrigues of other
foreigners at Tangier, to which perhaps the authorities at Gibraltar
are not wholly strangers. But neither the Government of Great Brit-
ain nor that of any other Christian power can ever have authorized
nor will it sanction such proceedings. The act of Mr. DeLong was per-
fectly legal and proper, and was performed in the legitimate exercise
of precisely the same kind of authority claimed and exercised by all
the consuls of the Christian powers over the subjects of their respective
governments found within that jurisdiction.
	it is not probable in any case that the secession sympathies of a few
of the subordinate authorities of Great Britain will be powerful enough
to lead that Government into the mistake of attempting in any way to
diminish the consular authority and jurisdiction of the Christian
powers in the Mohammedan states, an authority and jurisdiction
which England more than all others is interested to maintain. Whilst,
therefore, I would recommend much and careful consideration to be
manifested toward the Moorish authorities of Tangier, if the position
of our consul is at all compromitted at that place by recent events, I
hope you will sustain him with all the force you may have available
for the purpose, exacting from those authorities all the respect and
deference and protection which it is their duty to give him. A prompt
and energetic demonstration by you before Tangier with even a very
small force would probably tell better for the iiiterests of our Govern-
ment, in its moral effect upon the Moors, than a much larger expedition
later, when disputes may have intensified the evil and delay rendered
the position of our consul worse. I repeat, it is to be hoped that all
trouble will have ceased with the withdrawal of the prisoners. You
are upon the spot and will be better able to judge of the state of things
than I can. It is my purpose to speak only of the diplomatic and
political bearings of the supposed difficulty at Tangier, and of such
action as it might become your duty to take, in view of certain circum-
stances of which you will have better knowledge than I have; but it
might be well at any rate, whenever the exigemicies of your blockade
of the Sumter will permit, to visit the anchorage of Tangier in a friendly
way, as it is some time since the Moors have seen our flag displayed by
a man-of-war at that port.
	I write to you as semmior officer of the little squadron now present
near the Straits of Gibraltar, and, as I suppose, in command of all th

Page 360

360	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

ships. If I am in error, please pass this communication to the flag-
officer, whoever he may be, and believe me, sir, with much respect,
Your most obedient servant,
HORATIO J. PERRY.

Captain T. AuGS. CRAVEN,
Commanding U. S. War Steamer Tuscarora, at A igeciras.




U.	S. STEAMER KEARSARGE,
Off Gibraltar, March 8, 1862.
	SIR: Your communication, dated March the 5th, addressed to Com-
mander Craven, has been referred to me as senior officer.
	In relation to the rumored trouble at Tangier in consequence of the
arrest of Messrs. Myers and Tunstall, I am happy to assure you that
you have been misinformed. Mr. DeLong dined on board with me
to-day, and freely discussed disturbances attending the arrest. He
assures me that during the several days following the event all was
quiet.
	I cordially agree with you in opinion that the great and l)atriotic
action of our consul ought to be sustained, being perfectly legal and
proper, since it was sanctioned and aided by the Moorish authorities,
who alone had any right to interfere. As regards the energetic dem-
onstration before Tangier, with even a very small force, I will meet
your views so far as to proceed to Tangier with Consul DeLong, salute
and land him, and evince our appreciation of the friendly conduct of
the Moorish Government by salute and interchange of civilities. The
mo sent her prisoners home ou the 5th by the Harvest Home.
I am, with much respect, your obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERING,
Commander.
HoRATIO J. PERRY, Esq.,
Charg~ dAffaires, Madrid.



U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Off Algeciras, March 11, 1862.
	SIR: I avail myself of the earliest opportunity to reply in writing to
a question propounded me this day by the health officer, by command
of your Excellency, for my reasons for appearing off Gibraltar.
	Having on board dispatches from her Britannic Majestys minister
at Tangier, Drummond Hay, esq., I desired to place them at an early
moment on board the London for delivery on shore. I was also desir-
ons of affording a prompt arrival at his destination of Mr. Matteo,
brother-in-law of her Britannic Majestys consul at Tangier, Mr. Read,
who came from thence to Gibraltar as passenger in this vessel.
I take the present occasion to renew my considerations, and remain,
Your Excellencys obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERING,
Commander.
His Excellency Sir W. CODRINGTON,
Governor and Commander-in- Chief of the Fortress of Gibraltar, etc

Page 361

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	361


SECRETARYS OFFICE,
Gibraltar, March 12, 1862.
	SIR: I am directed by the governor to acknowledge the receipt of
your letter dated 14th instant, and to acquaint you that his Excellency
requests me to explain to you that the only reason for the particular
questions put to you by the health officer is the necessity of complying
with the instructions of Earl Russell.
	The governor begs to thank you for your courtesy in bringing over
the dispatches.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
S.	FREELING,
Colonial Secretary.
	Commander C. W. PICKERING,
U.	S. Steam Sloop Kearsarge, etc.



Report of Commander Ridgely, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Santi-
ago de Cuba, relative to cruise, and to two steamers in Havana Harbor,
which successfully ran blockade from Mississippi and Louisiana.

U.	S. S. SANTIAGO DE CUBA,
		Havana, March13, 1862.
	SIR: I left Key West after taking in coal and provisions, and arrived
at Havana on the 10th instant. I found in the harbor two steamers
which had run the blockade, one from the Sabine River, Louisiana; the
other from the Mississippi. One of them sailed from here yesterday
evening, and the other at 1 oclock a. m. this morning. I shall leave
to-day, and cruise between the Sabine and Mobile on an east and west
course, distant from 80 to 100 miles from land, in the hope of inter-
cepting them. They do not approach near the land during daylight.
I shall cruise for two weeks on that line, and return here.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	DANIEL B. RIDGELY,
	Hon. G. WELLES,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commander Mann, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship St.
Louis, relative to arrival at Cadiz, and the notice of C. S. S. Sumter
being at Gibraltar.
U.	S. SHIP ST. LOUIS,
Cadiz, Spain, March 14, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my arrival this day at this place,
after a tempestuous passage of thirty days from the Delaware. I have
only been a few hours at anchor, and part of that time under usual
restrictions of communication with the shore, and therefore I have not
learned any matters that would be of interest.
	Onr cousni has only had time to give me notice that the piratical
steamer Sumter is now at Gibraltar, and that her movements are being
closely watched by our steamers, Kearsarge and Tuscarora, and ship
in; all of which nmst have been ere this subjects of communication
from the commanders of those vessels. The mail leaves to-morro

Page 362

362	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

morning, and I take this my earliest opportunity of reporting to the
Department. 1 am happy to state that with few exceptions the health
of the officers and crew is good.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
M. C. MARIN,

Gommander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commander DeCamp, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Iro
quois, relative to cruise and arrival at St. Thomas, West Indies.

U. S. S. IROQUOIS,
St. Thomas, March 14, 1862.
	Sin: I have the honor to report the arrival of this ship at this port,
after a cruise of twenty-two days. During the cruise we called at the
port of La Guayra, for the purpose of communicating with our minister
at Caracas, bnt ascertaining that he had taken his departure for St.
Thomas and home the day previous to our arrival, we immediately got
underway and stood for Puerto Cabello, where we remained two days.
During our stay at the latter port we were honored by a visit from
General Paez and suite. The general was about embarking with a
portion of his army to attack the rebels near Maracaibo, and solicited
a passage for himself and staff in this ship to a place called Coro, dis-
tant about 150 miles west of Puerto Cabello. For obvious reasons I
declined the generals request, but in doing so I endeavored to avoid
just cause for offense. I think that the general was satisfied with my
course in the matter, as I trust the Department wili be. From Puerto
Cabello we went to Cura~ao to replenish our coal. Our stay at Cnra~ao
was most agreeal)le to all on board. We were received most kindly by
Governor Call [Crol l], the Dutch commodore, and by the officers of the
army,while the citizens en masse threw their doors open to us.
	Since my arrival in the West Indies we had heard from several sources
that the rebel privateers had established a depot at the group of islands
known as the Roques; at Cura~ao the report was confirmed. I therefore
determined to visit those islandsfor the purpose of ascertaining the truth
of such report, and to destroy such a nest should I discover it. The
Roques are well calculated to afford shelter to pirates, bat after a dili-
gent search of the entire group no trace of a depot could be found. The
harbor of El IRoque is a splendid roadstead, and as the shore afforded
a fine landing, we remained there twenty-four hours, for the purpose of
exercising our crew at battalion drill, howitzer practice, and in firing
shells and shots with our great gulls.
	The Departments letter dated January 30, authorizing me to endorse
bills on Messrs. Baring Brothers &#38; Co.,is received, also your letter of
the 8th ultimo, respecting the future destination of the Iroquois.
	To-morrow I shall proceed to sea and make the best of my way to the
place designated in your letter. I am happy to inform you that the
sanitary condition of the Iroquois is good.
I have the honor to be, niost respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOHN DECAMP,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 363

OPERATIONS OF THE CRiJISERSUNLON.	363

Report of Commander Pickering, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Kearsarge, announcing that he had ordered U~ S. ship mo to Palermo in
pursuit of the steamer Oreto, and enclosing correspondence relative
thereto.

U. S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
A igeciras, Gibraltar Bay, March 15, 1862.
SIR:	I have the honor to forward to the Department copies of letters
(received yesterday evening through Mr. Sprague, U. S. consul at
Gibraltar) from the American legation at Londou and consulate at
Liverpool, herewith enclosed and respectively marked A and B.
	The arrival of the U. S. ship mo from Cadiz and Tangier on the pre-
vious evening enabled me to dispatch her this day for Palermo, for
the purposes as set forth in my orders to her commanding officers, a
copy of which, marked C, is enclosed. The aforesaid advices from
England relative to vessels there fitting out for illegal purposes, and
the probability ot one or more visiting the Mediterranean, where the
field is so extensive for depredations upon American commerce, coupled
with reports of our consuls at neighboring ports requesting the pres-
ence of men-of-war to protect our interests, induces me to recommend
to the Department an augmentation of the present naval force. Steam-
ers are the only vessels that would meet all the demands.
	I am gratified to be able to report the good health of the officers and
men of the vessels now upon this station.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERING,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Na~y, Washington, D. C.


[Enclosures.l


A.


UNITED STATES CONSULATE,
Liverpool, February 28, 1862.
	DEAR SIR: There is fitting out here a screw steamer (wood) gun-
boat, which is intended for a Confederate privateer. She is to be taken
out on a trial trip to-morrow, but I have reasons for believing she will
not return here, but will go on to some other port, in England it may
be, or the Mediterranean, to receive and fit her guns, etc., and fill up
or receive her crew, be there delivered to the Confederate agents and
commence her piracies. I write that you may spare no effort to obtain
information and promptly communicate it to the minister or Govern-
ment, whose duty it will be to prevent her fitting out, as well as to
our own Government and to me. She is now called the Oreto; is a
screw steamer, 700 tons; will go [from] here under the British fiag~ com-
manded by Captain Duguid.
Yours, truly,
THOMAS II. DUDLEY,
U.	S. Consul.
U.	S. CONSUL,
Gibraltar

Page 364

	364	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		               B.
LE~ATION OF TIlE UNITED STATES,
London, March 5, 1862.
	SIR: I am instructed by Mr. Adams to acknowledge tne reception of
your note of the 25th ultimo, with its enclosures. He directs me to
inform you that he has learned from the U. S. consul at Liverpool
that a screw gunboat called the Oreto has been fitted out at that port
with six months provisions, and was to sail yesterday for Palermo and
Jamaica, the owner being W. C. Miller, and the commander, Du guid.
It is pretended that this vessel is intended for the Italian Government,
and was ordered for it by Thomas &#38; Co., of Palerino, to whom she is
consigned; but satisfactory evidence exists that she belongs to the
rebels, and is designed as a privateer by them. She is bark rigged, has
2 funnels, has 8 port holes on each side~ 8 rifled cannons, and 2 heavy
swivel pivot guns to rake fore and aft. When fully equipped she will
be a formidable antagonist.
	Mr. Adams called the attention of the British Government to this
vessel a few days ago, and the reply was that she was for the Italian
Government. This, however, has been ascertained to be incorrect.
But the Government here have kept a strict watch on her and she has
iiot been able to take her guns on board. It is now stated that she is
not to be delivered to her owners until she reaches Palermo, and that
her guns will be taken on board there. These were shipped oii Sat-
urday on the Bermuda, the screw steamer that ran the blockade at
Savannah last fall; and she sailed that day ostensibly for some of the
West India Islands. The guns are at the top of her cargo and can be
easily taken out. Mr. Marsh, at Turin, has been notified of the char-
acter of this vessel, and as she may go to the Mediterranean, Mr. Adams
deems it proper to inform you about her.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
BENJ. MORAN,
Acting Secretary of Legation.
HORATIO J. SPRAGUE, Esq.,
U. S. Consul, Gibraltar.


C.
U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Algeciras, ]lliarch 15, 1862.
	SIR: You will proceed with the ship under your command to
Palermo with all possible dispatch in pursuit of the screw steamer
Oreto, which vessel is reported to have left Liverpool on the 4th instant
for Palermo. I enclose herewith a copy of a letter from our minister
at London, giving an account and description of the Oreto. Should
you be so fortunate as to fall in with her, you will capture and send
her to the United States for adjudication. On arrival at Palerino you
will communicate and advise with the U. S. consul, and if after a
reasonable lapse of time nothing is heard of the Oreto, you will return
to this port.
	Wishing you a pleasant and successful cruise, I am, very respectfully,
your obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERING,
Commander.
	Acting Volunteer Lieutenant JOSIAH P. CREESY,
Commanding U. S. Ship mo

Page 365

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	365


Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Rogers, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. bark W. G. Anderson, of a cruise from February 16 to March
20, 1862.

U.S. BARK W. G. ANDERSON,
Latitude 25~, Longitude 690, March 20, 1862.
	SIR: I avail myself of a homeward-bound vessel to inform you of our
movements, though nothing of importance has occurred since my last
dispatch to the ~ avy Department, per British Iris for Boston, spoken
February 16. Our stores are now getting much reduced and my
present expectation is to be iu Boston between the 8th and 15th April,
making the cruise six months.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

	Hoping to bring the W. G. Anderson into port in as good order as
she left it, and regretting we have had no more success in meeting
privateers,
I have the honor to be, respectfully, your obedient servant,
WA. (9. ROGERS,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant,
Commanding U. S. Bark W. G. Anderson.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Commander Pickering, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kear.
sarge, stating the necessity of going to Cadiz for repairs and withdraw.
ing from watch of C. S. S. Sumter, with enclosures from authorities at
Gibraltar.
U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Algeciras, March 24, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor herewith to enclose a copy * of a survey upon a
portion of the machinery of this ship in reference to the defect of which
the chief engineer made verbal report on the evening of the 22d instant,
which I requested him to put in writing and received the next morning
as per copy embodied in the survey.
	I regret the necessity of losing sight of the Sumter for a moment,
but deem it imperative under the circumstances to proceed to Cadiz
for the purpose of making the suggested repairs, leaving the Sumter to
the care of the Tuscarora. Said repairs will be effected with every
expeditioii available, upon the completion of which I shall instantly
return to this port.
	Since my letter of the 15th instant nothing worthy of note has tian-
spired save, it maybe, the reception of the enclosed communication from
the governor and senior naval officer at Gibraltar, the receipt of which,
as will be seen, I acknowledged in courteous terms, if not in feeling.
	I am happy to state that the most friendly feeling is evinced by the
Spanish officials at Algeciras, on shore and afloat, toward our Gov.
eminent.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERING,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
* Omitted

Page 366

	366	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		                   [Enclosures.]

GIBRALTAR, March 19, 1862.
	SIR: We have the honor to inform you that there now exists no
objection to boats from the ships of war of the United States at Alge-
ciras coming over to Gibraltar. We request you will be good enough
to give instructions to persons in charge of all boats not to approach
so close to the Sumter as to give rise to any cause of complaint.
We have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servants,
W.	[J.] CODRINGTON,
Lieutenant- General and Governor.
FRED. WARDEN,
Captain and Senior Naval Officer.
	Commander C. W. PIcKERING,
U.	S. Steam Sloop Kearsarge, Ageciras Bay.


U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Algeciras, March 20, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of a communica-
tioii of the 19th instant, signed by your Excellency and Captain Fred-
erick Warden, senior naval officer, informing me that there now
exists no objection to boats from the ships of war of the United States
at Algeciras coming over to Gibraltar. I am pleased that the former
objection is removed, and in availing myself of the facilities thereby
afforded, shall issue instructions in conformity with the request of your
Excellency.
I have the honor to be, sir, your Excellencys obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERING,
Commander.
	His Excellency W. [~1 CODRINGTON,
Lieutenant-General and Governor of Gibraltar, etc.


Report of Commander ]Jfarin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. Ship St.
Louis, stating that the Sumter was closely watched in Gibraltar by the
Kearsarge and Tuscarora, and that vessels for slave trade were being
fitted out in Cadiz Harbor.
U.	S. SHIP ST. LOUIS,
Cadiz, Spain, March 28, 1862.
	SIR: On my arrival at this place on the 14th instant I had the honor
to report in a hurried letter to the Department. Soon after my arrival
I had reliable information that the rebel steamer Sumter was in Gib-
raltar, closely watched by the steamers Kearsarge and Tuscarora, and
I subsequently learned by letters from Commander Pickering, of the
steamer Kearsarge, and from II. J. Sprague, esq., our consul at Gibral-
tar, that the Sumter was not making attempt to fit out again.
	Commander Pickering says to me that no farther force is necessary
in that vicinity. I shall therefore not deem it necessary at present to
proceed to Gibraltar, but will as soon as possible sail on a cruise in the
Atlantic, and Lisbon will be my next port, to communicate with our
minister there.
	Matters have arisen that have taken some attention. I have found
here two American vessels, the ship Clarissa and brig Falmouth, both
suspected of being in preparation to engage in the slave trade. I mus

Page 367

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	367

confess that I have felt a delicacy in interfering with these vessels,
inasmuch as the subject has been represented, as I am informed, to the
American minister at Madrid, and that these vessels have been
deprived of their papers by order of the State Department at Wash-
ington. I presume that the object of depriving them of their papers
was to keel) them in this port, which I presume is within the power of
our consul here, but the Clarissa has clandestinely sailed. Finding that
the Clarissa had sailed, I directed a note to the military governor of
Cadiz, requesting that the Falmoath should be detained, and finding
	that my note was not replied to, I called on the governor, when he
informed me that a reply had been made to a note from our consul on
the subject. This has led me to believe that they look to the consul
for action in the matter.
	It seems that this harbor is a rendezvous for vessels fitting out for
the slave trade, and lain reliably informed, and from what I have seen,
that there are notorious American citizens here known to have been
engaged in the slave trade. An active agent would, 1 think, do much
to frustrate the plans of slave dealers in this port and vicinity.
	My clerk, Mr. George II. Calvert, finding that ship life did not suit
him, has been allowed to return to the United States at his own expense.
	There being a vacancy on board of an acting master, I have given
an appointment to Acting Masters Mate Allen Hoxie, subject to con-
firmation by the Navy Department. Mr. iloxie is a gentleman of experi-
ence, and I take pleasure in recommending him for the full position of
acting master.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
M.	C. MARIN,
Commanding U. S. Ship St. Louis.
	Hon. GWEoN WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington D. C.



Report of Commander Prailey, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Quaker
City, of arrival at St. Thomas, West Indies, and of the rumored capture
of C. S. S. Sumter, off Tangier.
U.	S. S. QUAKER CITY,
St. Thomas, March 28, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my returim to this port on the 24th
instant, from a cruise to the southward and westward, ton ching at San
Domingo, Cura~ao, Puerto Cabello, and La Guayra, taking on board
while at Cura~ao 183 tons coal and 4,000 gallons of water. Informa-
tion was brought here on the day of my arrival, by an American cap-
tain, from St. Pierre, Martinique, of the capture of the rebel steamer
Sumter by the U. S. gunboat Tuscarora, off Tangier. Should this infor-
mation be confirmed on the arrival of the English mail steamer from
Southampton on the 1st proximo, I shall immediately comply with the
instructions of the Department of December 14, 1861, and report, as
directed, for duty in the Gulf Squadron.
	I am pleased to report that the officers and crew are in the enj9yment
of excellent health.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	JAS. MADISON FRAILEY,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 368

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
368

Report of Captain Powell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. frigate Poto-
mac, noting changes in Spanish, English, and French forces at Vera
Cruz, and giving account of capture of B~ itish steamer Labuan in Mex-
can waters by the U. S. S. Portsmouth.

U.	S. FRIGATE PoToMAC,
Off Vera Cruz, March 30, 1862.
	SIR: Since my last dispatch, No. 4, dated March 3, 1862, some
changes in the face of affairs near Vera Cruz have taken place. The
Spanish force has been reduced by one or more bati alions, which were
sent lately to San Domingo. The English land force has been with-
drawn, except a few marines, which help to garrison Vera Cruz, all the
rest having embarked in the Donegal and Sans Pareil, ships of the line,
together with the numerous sick, and sent to Bermuda. On the other
hand, the French forces have been largely augmented, and more are
expected. The Turenne, ship of the line, arrived some days ago with
1,100 troops, and she followed close upon several other troop ships
direct from France.
	General Lorencez, the commander in chief of the French forces, is
said to have declared that he shall be guided by instructions he brings
with him, regardless of the recent conventions entered into by the joint
commissioners with the Mexican authorities. His tone is frank, and
he takes high ground in relation to Mexican affairs, the control of
which is likely to fall into his hands.
	The English force is reduced by the two ships of the line above named.
The Ariadne went off in company with the Sans Pareil, and the Phceton
was sent some ten days since to the mouth of the Rio Grande. There
remains here of English, Mersey, Challenger, Jason, Desperate, and some
screw gunboats, and Barracouta, side-wheel. Of the French, 111 assena,
100; Turenne, 100, the last disarmed; AstreA, Foudre, Guerriere, first-
class frigates, all screw ships, with several smaller vessels. One of
them, the Berthollet 6, side-wheel, sailed for the Rio Grande on the
same mission as the Phwton. Of that mission I will now speak.
	It was reported to the British Commodore Dunlop that the U. S. ship
Portsmouth had captured the British steamer Labuan whilst at anchor
loading with cotton in Mexican waters. Subsequently, as Commodore
Dunlop told me, the British consul-general at Havana wrote him that
the supercargo and master of the Labuan were there, and reported to
him that the vessel was at anchor off the bar of the Rio (irande, in Mexi-
can waters, loading with cotton from Matamoras, which they said was -
brought to them down the river in whole or in part by a lighter, flying,
it is true, the secession flag, but still in Mexican waters. They make
reports on these facts to British authorities, and amongst others to
Commodore Dunlop, who sent the Phwton to the Rio Grande to verify
the facts ol the case.
	The Berthollet was sent for a more general purpose, having no spe-
cific case to look after. Her purpose was to communicate with the
blockading ships off the Rio Grande, to ascertain to what extent the
commanders had already or were instructed to blockade in future the
Rio Grande, to which neutral commerce had the right of entry and free
trade with the Mexicans.
	I gave to Captains Tatham, of the Placton, and de Jonquibres, of the
Berthollet, civil letters of introduction to Commander Swartwout, of the
Portsmouth, and wrote to the flag-officer all that I could learn at the
same time.
	Two days since I had an interview with Commodore Dunlop, in whic

Page 369

OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.	369

he read me the outline of a letter he designed to forward to Flag-Officer
Farragut on the return of the Pha?ton, if her information corresponded
with reports already made to him. The letter was very friendly in its
tone, enforced by the verbal remark that it would be a great misfor-
tune if the returning current of good feeling in England should be
arrested by indiscreet, illegal, or vexatious application of the rights of
the belligerent against the lawful trade of a neutral vessel.
	I enclose for your information a minute* of the points made by Com-
modore Dunlop in the letter read to me, as accurately as 1 could make
from memory.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
L.	M. POWELL,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES	Captain.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commander DeCamp, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Iro-
quois, of controversy with commanding officer of H. B. ill ship Cadmus
regarding alleged deserter from that ship on board an American bark.

U.	S. S. IROQUOIS,
Southwest Pass, March 31, 1862.
	SIR: Through an inadvertence I have hitherto neglected to inform
you regarding an incident at St. Thomas, which for a time threatened
to assume an importance which it fortunately did not attain.
	On the 16th of January last Captain H. S. Hillyar, of H. B. M.
ship Cadmus, 22 guns, sent an officer and boats crew alongside an
American bark lying in the harbor of St. Thomas, and demanded the
delivery of a seaman on board the bark, said to be a deserter from the
Cadmus. The captain of the bark peremptorily refused to give the
man up, and stated that he (the man) had signed articles in England
for the voyage. The British officer then returned to the Cadmus with
the American captains answer. Captain ilillyar sent his officer back
with an order to the captain of the bark to send the man aboard
immediately, without further parley. The captain of the bark returned
answer that the man had been enticed from his vessel at St. Thomas
by an English officer, and had afterwards repented and returned and
that he could not give him up. The next day the captain repeate~1 his
demand in the most peremptory manner, when I felt it my duty to
interfere. I sent word to the governor of St. Thomas that the man
should not be forcibly taken if I was able to prevent it with the forces
at my disposal, and that I would not be responsible for any damage to
the town or shipping in case Captain Hillyar persisted in his conrse.
	The result was that Captain Hillyar did not pursue the matter any
further; if lie had, I should have done my utmost to prevent the forci-
ble and unjust accomplishment of his purpose.
I have the honor to be, most respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOHN DECAMP,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

Not found.
123A2

Page 370

370	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Commander Thatcher, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Gon.
stellation, of cruise from Portsmouth, N. H., to Lisbon, Portugal.

U.	S. SHIP CONSTELLATION,
Lisbon, Portugal, April 1, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform the Department that I sailed from
Portsmouth, N. II., on the 11th ultimo, and on the 23d at sunset made
the islands of Fayal and Pico; weather stormy. On the following day
ran in in front of the town, and in full yiew of the port of Horta, and
attempted to communicate with the shore, the sea being very high and
the weather squally and threatening.
	In attempting to land my boat was swamped and stove alongside,
nearly drowning her crew; and as no boat could come off from the
shore, I reluctantly gave up the attempt to land on that day; and,
after ascertaining that there were only two small barks in port, I stood
out for the night, intending to land on the following day. But the sea
continuing very high, and a hard gale coming on from the northward
and westward, I was obliged to run off under short sail. For several
successive days this weather continued with no prospect of a change.
I therefore bore up for Lisbon, satisfied that no hostile vessel was at
Fayal, and arrived here on the 1st instant, and communicated with
our minister, Mr. liarvey.
	He informs me that he has recently advised the Department of State
of the existing state of our affairs on the Atlantic coasts of Portugal,
Spain, and Morocco; and that the Sumter remains at Gibraltar, closely
watched by the Kearsarge and the Tuscarora, and that the mo is cruis-
ing in that vicinity.
	I shall, as soon as possible, leave this port for Cadiz, and from
thence in the execution of my instructions, and shall from time to time
inform the Department of my movements.
	Our passage across the Atlantic was a series of gales and heavy
weather. I had the misfortune to lose overboard one of my seamen,
John Campbell, who was washed from the forecastle. His body was
recovered, but life was extinct before he was got on board.
I have the honor to be, your very obedient servant,
H.	K. THATCHER,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Letter from the U. S. charg6 daffaires at ]JIadrid to Captain Craven,
U.	S. Navy, requesting evidence relative to the capture of the Amer.
ican bark Neapolitan by the C. S. S. Sumter.

LE~ATJON OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
]lladrid, April 11, 1862.
	CAPTAIN: I have received orders from Washington to prosecute the
claim of the owners of the American bark Neapolitan, captured, as
alleged, within a marine league (the affidavit of captain and mate say
1~ miles) from the coast of Ceuta, on the 18th of last January, by the
Sumter, and totally destroyed, against the Spanish Government, in
whose jurisdiction the capture was made.
	It is understood that you have on board the Tuscarora severa

Page 371

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	371

men who were on board the ~S~umter herself, at the time the Neapolitan
was boarded. May I request you to have these men before you and
take their affidavit as to the point where the Neapolitan was, and
whether in fact they consider she was within 3 miles from the shore,
and whether it was the shore of Ceuta, or that of the Sultan of Morocco;
in short, to collect and transmit to me all the evidence in your power
bearing upon the point of the position of the Neapolitan at the time of
her capture. I write to request Consul Sprague to go on board your
ship, if there is no objection to this course on your part, so as to put
this evidence into legal form for use in this legation.
Itespectfully, sir, your obedient servant,
	Captain CRAVEN,	HORATIO J. PERRY.
Commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, near Algeciras.


Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Creesy, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. ship mo, regarding alleged Confederate schooner TV. B. Alex-
ander, and enclosing correspondence relative thereto.

U. S. SHIP INO
Palermo, April 12, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report to you my arrival at this port March
22, seven days from Algeciras, under instructions from Captain Pick-
ering, of the Kearsarge, copy of which I herewith enclose. On my
arrival here I found a schooner called the W. B. Alexander of Savannah,
Ga- she came here with American colors and claimed protection from
the American consul, on account of which I wrote a note to Mr. Monti,
requesting he should take the necessary steps for placing me in posses-
sion of that vessel to be sent to the United States for adjudication. He
immediately commnnicated with Mr. Marsh at Turin upon the subject,
and from whom no answer was received until late last evening, and
from which it will appear to my mind that the ground taken by Mr.
Marsh is that she canie here under the rebel flag.
	1 can see no reason for coming in contact with the Italian Govern-
ment in arresting an American vessel here that places herself under
the jurisdiction of our consul. The vessel acknowledges 110 confederacy
and in case of injustice has the protection of the law at home, and is,
I think, amenable to the same at home or abroad. The captain has
not repudiated the American Government and claimed the right of
asylum as a Confederate, which would have put a different phase upon
the subject, but is here as an American citizen with Confederate papers,
which is sufficient ground, I think, for his arrest. The captain is one-
fourth owner of the vessel, and I proposed to him some days ago to
surrender his vessel to me and I would put a prize crew on board (taking
his with me) and allow him to charter the vessel for some loyal port of
the United States, and he could go home (with his wife) as the nominal
captain of the vessel, by which act he would satisfy the Government of
his loyalty and would be allowed to retain his interest in the vessel.
This offer he has declined, in a note bearing date of the 11th instant,
copy of which I herewith enclose. Feeling I ought not to delay my
departure longer, shall go to sea to-day, for Algeciras, should a wind
come, leaving this vessel in the hands of the consul, who will prevent
her departure till instructions from the Governuient are received.
	I have had my damage, sustained on passage from Boston, repaired
here, except replacing the boat lost. Have also put new topmast rig

Page 372

372	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

ging over mastheads, brought from Boston for that purpose, and given
the ship and rigging a general overhauling, painting, etc. My inter-
course with the authorities here has been very pleasant and agreeable.
The governor and family have visited and dined on board my ship, and
myself and officers have been treated with great deference by all we
have come in contact with. The governor has been exceedingly kind
and polite, he having invited me to dine with him and to attend the
levees given by him every Tuesday evening, and on two occasions he
has invited me to the theater with his family. I mention these facts in
justice to the governor.
	I received your favor of Febrnary 12, covering credit for $5,OO(i on
Baring Brothers, at the moment of my departure for Algeciras, too late
to acknowledge receipt of same at that place. This will be acconi-
panied with full documents to date.
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant,
	JosiAH P. CREESY,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
		[Enclosures.]	~. S. SHIP Ixo,

Palermo, March 29, 1862.
	SIR:	Having had the perusal of the papers of the several ships now
at this port, and finding those of the schooner W. E. Alexander, repre-
senting said vessel as being wholly owned in Savannah, State of
Georgia, and having pretended Confederate papers, and at the same
time claiming to sail under the American flag and your protection as
the U. S. consul, I deem it my duty to request your immediate atten-
tion to taking such measures as are necessary for my taking possession
of that vessel, in order that she may be sent to the United States for
adjudication, as a lawful prize to the U. S. ship liw. My authority for
such proceedings you will find in the accompanying copy of instruc-
tions from the Navy Department. Seeing no reason for difficulty with
the authorities in this matter, as the captain claims the protection from
you as U. S. consul, which is only due loyal citizens, lie can be removed
with the same facility as the owner of a ship residing in the United States
can remove an unfaithful captain from his ship in any foreign port.
Trusting you will lose no time in making the necessary arrangements,
I am, sir, with the highest respect, your obedient servant,
JOSIAH P. CREESY,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding.
LIJIGI MONTI, Esq.,
U.	S. Consul.

PALERMO, April 11, 1862.
	SIR:	I must inform you that your proposal in regard to the schooner
W. B. Alexander, of Savannah, can not be complied with to-day, as my
friend that I agreed to consult with before taking any action is gone
to the country and will not be back before Monday.
	Your obedient servant,		N. E. TUCKER,

Master, Schooner Win. B. Alexander, of Savannah, Ga.
COMMANDER OF THE U. S. Suw INO.
It is known that the captain has flown the rebel flag.
J.	P. CREESY

Page 373

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	373

Letter from the U. S. consul at Gibraltar to Commander Craven, U. AS1.

Navy, announcing the abandonment of the Sumter there.
CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES o~ AMERICA,
Gibraltar, April 12, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the satisfaction to inform you that the piratical career
of the steamer Samter has closed at this port. With the exception of
the engineers, two junior officers, and sufficent men to keep her in
order, all her crew have been paid off since the 8th instant, and her
commander, Semmes, with eight others belonging to the Su~~~ter, left
this port last night by the British mail steamer Miooltan for Sonth-
ampton. Her discharged crew are leaving this by degrees by diff~rent
conveyances to distant ports.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
HORATIO J. SPRAGUE,
	U. S. Consul.
	Commander CRAVEN,
U.	S. S. Tuscarora, off Algeciras.



Report of Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tusca-
rora, announcing abandonment of C. S. S. Sumter at Gibraltar.

U.	S. S. TUSCARORA,
Algeciras, April 12, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform youi that I have this day received
from Mr. Sprague, U. S. consul for Gibraltar, official intelligence that
the officers and crew of the pirate Sumter have left that vessel, a few
ship keepers being retained on board. It is with great satisfaction IL
make this communication, as I am enabled to feel that the close block-
ade I have kept for the past two mouths has not been without its
results. So soon as I can be perfectly assured that the vessel has been
abandoned I will go on a cruise in search of the Oreto, as I have sus-
picions that a number of the officers have gone to joiii that vessel.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
	T. AUGS. CRAVEN,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander.
Secretary of the Navy.


Report from Lieutenant lIfcDougal, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Saginaw, stating that he had been ordered to remove his vessel from
llongkong, and enclosing order therefor.

U.	S. S. SAGINAW,
Macao, April 13, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report the following:
	The anticipated troubles with England having subsided, on the 19th
ultimo I removed this vessel from this place to Hongkong, deeming
Hongkong to be the better place for carrying out any instructions I
might receive from the Department concernii~g her. On the 5th
instant I received a call from the harbor master, who informed me tha

Page 374

374	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

he had been instructed to notify me to remove the U. S. S. Saginaw
from llongkong, at the same time handing me a letter containing the
notification, and enclosing a proclamation just issued by the governor,
all of which I enclose. There being no other course for me to pursue
than that of complying with the requirements made, on the 10th instant
I got under way and steamed over to this place, where I shall await
instructions from the Department.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES J. MODOUGAL,
Lieutenant, U. &#38; Navy, in charge U. S. S. Saginaw.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
[Enclosure.]

HARBOR MASTERS OFFICE,
floughong, April 4, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to enclose a proclamation issued by his Excel-
lency the governor, having reference to the hostilities which are now
carried on between the States of North America which have seceded
from the Union and those which adhere to it, and in compliance with
its provisions beg to request you will be good enough to remove the
U. S. sloop of war Saginaw, under your command, from the colony of
Hongkong and its dependencies.
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant,
II. G. MONUTT,
Harbor Master, etc.
The OFFICER COMMANDING U. S. SLOOP OF WAR SAGINAW.



Report of Commander Mann, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship St.
Louis, regarding supposed slave vessels Clarissa and Palmouth, and
enclosing correspondence relative thereto.

U. S. SHIP ST. LOUIS,
Lisbon, Portugal, April 14, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report my arrival at this place yesterday,
from Cadiz. I had not time before leaving Cadiz to report proceedings
that had taken place there relative to the American brig Falmouth,
strongly suspected of being in preparation to engage in the slave trade,
and of which vessel mention was made in my last letter of the 28th
ultimo to the Department, in connection with the bark Clarissa. I
stated in that letter the delicacy I felt in interfering with the two
vessels, Clarissa and Ealmouth, as the subject was fully in the hands
of the American minister at Madrid and the consul at Cadiz, from the
latter of whom I had expected immediate vigilance and action.
	But the Clarissa was allowed to leave the port at night, clandestinely;
though I believe, and regret, that she was cleared at the custom-house
even without her legal papers. I then determined if possible to stop the
brig Falmouth from pursuing a similar audacious course. In this I
had the assistance of our minister at Madrid, as by a telegram received
from him (herewith, marked A) I was led to believe that, he being in
accord with the authorities at Madrid. there would be no objection to
my sending an officer and a few men to prevent the Falmouth from
leaving the port, until the Spanish authorities could take such meas-
ures as in all national courtesy the case so simply demanded; parti

Page 375

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSTJNION.	375

ularly as they were aware of all the circumstances, and that these
vessels had been deprived of their papers by order of the Secretary of
State of the United States.
	It was on the afternoon of the 31st ultimo that I sent a few men
with an officer on board the Falmouth, to prevent her from sailing, as
from my own observation and from information derived from various
sources she was to sail that night. From the tenor of the telegram (A)
and the letter (marked B) I was also led to believe that the authorities
of Cadiz had instructions from Madrid that I should at least be allowed
to keep the Palmouth in port until the affair could be understood
between the Queens Government and the Government of the United
States.
	On the 2d instant I received a note from the captain of the port of
Cadiz, requesting that I should withdraw my men from the brig
Falmouth, and at about the same time I received a telegram from our
minister (see copy of and letters marked C and D) doing away with his
former adviceto the effect that I should retract the steps I had taken.
Finding also that the authorities seemed displeased with the course I
had pursued, I immediately addressed a note to our consul, a copy to
be sent to the governor at Cadiz (marked E 2), disavowing any inten-
tion of infringing upon the laws of Spain; and I also called in person
to make the explanation unmistakable. The governor seemed satisfied
with my letter and explanation, and said that for reasons of indebted-
ness the Palmouth would be taken possession of by the authorities,
which I learned was the case before I left.
	Herewith I enclose copies of letters bearing in some degree on the
above relation (marked D and E), * alluding to a man who was on board
the Falmouth (John Thomsen), and whom I had taken out of the
Patmouth aud left in charge of the consul to be discharged.
I am sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
		    M. C. MARIN,
	Hon. G. WELLES,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary qf the Nary, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosures.1

A.

[Telegram.]
MADRID, March 29, 1862.
	With the concurrence of the authorities, you will take possession of
the slave ship Palmouth, and at least prevent her from going to sea
without legal papers.
HOnATIO J. PERRY.
	Captain MARIN, etc.



B.

LEGATION OF TIlE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Madrid, March 29, 1862.
	SIR:	I had already given you instructions about the vessels Clarissa
and Faimouth, when I received by to-days mail two letters from Consul
Eggleston, dated on the 24th and 26th instants, both mailed on the

Omitted

Page 376

376	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.


27th in Cadiz, which inform me that the Clarissa had effected her
escape from the port, and that he had applied to the Spanish author-
ities to detain the Falmouth, without success. In view of this informa-
tion I have just sent you a telegram requesting you to take possession
of that vessel and send her home to the United States. I have also
immediately addressed this Government, requesting them to order the
authorities of Cadiz to aid and assist you in any way which you may
require.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
HORATIO J. PERRY.
	Commander M. C. MARIN,
U.	S. Sloop of War St. Louis.

	P. S.Send a boats crew and take possession of the Falmouth and
do not leave her out of possession of your men, even though you should
not take her out of the port to send her home. In case the Spanish
authorities make any objection to your sending her home you had better
thus keep quiet possession witnont moving her till the question can be
referred up to this Government andthis legation for decision.
HORATIO J. PERRY.

	Should there be any opposition to your taking charge of the Pal-
mouth, on the part of the authorities of the port, you ought to avoid
all trouble with them, and it will do equally well if they will themselves
agree to detain her till further orders from the Queens Government at
Madrid.
HORATIO J. PERRY.


C.

[Telegram.]

MADRID, April 1, 1862.
	Suspend the execution of the telegraphic instructions of March 29,
1862, relative to the Palmouth. Attend ~o the letter of March 28.
HORATIO J. PERRY.
	Captain MARIN, etc.


D.

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AiwERICA,
Madrid, March 28, 1862.
	SIR: I herewith enclose copies of a letter from our legation at Berlin
and of translation of one written by a seaman from on board the Ameri-
can brig Falmouth, at anchor in Cadiz, tending to show that that ves-
sel is designed for the African slave trade. Various conimunications
from our minister at Lisbon, received in this legation, manifest the same
suspicion, Mr. Harvey having had near him for some time the parties
engaged in the scheme to whom this vessel as well as the Clarissa, also
at Cadiz, are supposed to belong. Our Government at Washington
must also have been in possession of some information unknown to me
and to Mr. Harvey, as it is not long since the Department of State
ordered the former consul at Cadiz, Mr. J. T. Smith, to send home the
registers of these two vessels and by no means to allow them to leave
port

Page 377

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	377

	On the 2d February last, I wrote to the Secretary of State request-
ing further instructions concerning these two vessels, which I suppose
will not now be long delayed. Meantime I have instructed our consul,
Mr. Eggleston, under date of to-day, to have the seaman John Thorn-
sen before him, aud, if he should so request, to discharge him accord-
ing to law. It is to be supposed that the implied accusation of some
neglect of duty or partial leaning toward the side of the master of the
Falmouth on the part of our consul, Mr. Eggleston, which appears in
the letter of the seaman Thomsen,is without foundation, but you will
know how to guard a proper reserve until you are entirely satisfied in
this respect.
	As to the vessels Clarissa and Palmouth, whilst they lie quiet at Cadiz,
nothing, in my opinion, ought to be done, except to wait for instruc-
tions from Washington; but if they should attempt to leave port until
permitted by special instructions from Washington or from this lega-
tion, I hereby authorize and request you to seize them both, or either
of them, outside the limits of Spanish jurisdiction, if it can be securely
done, and to send them home to the United States.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
HORATIO J. PERRY.
	Commander M. C. MARIN,
Commanding U. S. Sloop of War St. Louis.



E2.
U.	S. SHIP ST. LOUIS,
Cadiz, April 2, 1862.
	SIR: I have received your note, accompanied by copy of a note to
you from the military governor of Cadiz. Will you be pleased to say
to his Excellency the governor that in sending a few men to the brig
Palmouth I had only in view the keeping her in this port and to pre-
vent her from sailing without her legal papers. I had no thought of
infringing upon the dignity of Spain or the laws of her Catholic Maj-
esty. In this acknowledgment his Excellency will at once see how
much I would regret any misnnderstanding that could possibly arise.
I have withdrawn the men from the brig Paimouth.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, M. C. MARIN,
	E. S. EGGLESTON, Esq.,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Consul of the United States, Cadiz, Spain.



H.

LEcfATION OP THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Madrid, April .9, 1862.
	CAPTAIN: Yonr letter of April 2 from Cadiz reached me on the
5th instant and gives me an account of your proceedings in regard to
the Palmouth.
	The refusal of the Spanish authorities to detain this vessel and the
Clarissa until our Government could be heard from is certainly a strang

Page 378

378	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

proceeding aiid one which has produced considerable debate between
this legation and the Queens Government. They seem, however, to
have mixed up the question of these slavers in some unaccountable
way with the question of their so-called neutrality in regard to the
ships of onr rebels.
	The telegram of the 1st instant to you was in consequence of nego-
tiations going on here of which, I have considerable hope, the ultimate
result will be to stop the career of the Falmouth. Your action I have
no doubt was timely as it was necessary, otherwise that ship would
have gone to sea, and we should have seen repeated the scandalous
fact of another American vessel without papers and against the com-
man(l of our own Government navigating freely on the high seas. It
would have been better, if the urgency of the circumstances permitted,
to have seen the Spanish authorities previous to boarding the Pal-
mouth within their jurisdiction, but they appear to have been satisfied
with yonr explanations and those of the consul, which were indeed
everything that could be desired from both of you.
	The Palmouth seems to have been detained by your efficient action
at a critical moment, an(l the Spanish authorities afterwards satisfied
by your explanations, and both of these results were highly desirable,
and I have no doubt will be so recognized by our Government. * * *
Respectfully, sir, your obedient servant,
H.	J. PERRY.
	Captain M. C. MARIN,
Gommanding U. S. Ship St. Louis, Lisbon.



Report of Commander Pickering, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S~ S.
Kearsarge, giving information in regard to C. S. ~S. Sumter.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Royal Dockyard, La Carraca, Gadiz, April 14, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of the Kearsarge at Cadiz
on the 2d instant. Owing to the delay occasioned by the necessity of
communicating with Madrid before permission could be obtained to
visit the dockyard, 1 did not reach it until the 6th. The necessity for
this proceeding was explained in my letter of the 24th ultimo, containing
survey upon machinery, etc., which I trust was dilly received.
	Late advices from the consul at Gibraltar inform me that the captain
and nine officers of the Sam ter left that place for Liverpool on the
12th instant. Most of the ciew were discharged and the vessel is to
remain under the charge of two officers and a few men as ship keepers.
	Referring to my instructions from the Department in connection
with the present position of affairs in regard to the Sumter, I am some-
what at a loss ROW to proceed, for, independent of the possibility of
the Sumters officers returning to said vessel to renew their depreda
tions after the withdrawal of the steamers from the Mediterranean, it
is rumored that they have gone to Liverpool for the purpose of taking
another vessel fitted out either there or at Southampton.
	Under existing circumstances I shall return to Algeciras immediately
upon the completion of repairs, and unless further developments render
my course of proceeding clear, shall remain there until further instruc-
tions from the Department, cruising in the daytime in the straits and
anchoring at night either at Algeciras, Ceuta, or Tangier, remainin

Page 379

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	379

in readiness to proceed to any point in the Mediterranean where the
presence of a man-of-war may be required.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERINcf,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander Bissell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship ~iJyane,
regarding a scheme to fit out Confederate pricateers in Valparaiso.

U.	S. SHIP CYANE,
T~alparaiso, Chile, April 14, 18G2.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that I sailed from Panama direct for
this port on the 20th of February, in obedience to an order from Flag-
Officer Bell, and reached here on the 9th of April, after an extremely
pleasant passage. Soon after my arrival I called upon Mr. Ward, in
company with the U. S. consul, and from him learned that in the month
of January there was an agent of the Southern Confederacy here
with authority to fit out privateers; that a commission of lieutenant
was offered to Mr. Ward, under the influence of a deception purposely
practiced by him upon the agent. The intention of the parties engaged
in this piratical scheme was to send a ship or a vessel to a port to
leeward of this, where men and guns would be put on board of her, and
the vessel got ready to sail before any information could reach the
Government at Santiago of their proceedings. The intention of the
parties appears to have been not to take their prizes into any port, but
plunder, destroy, and burn as many as they could upon the coast and
then make for the islands, and after pursuing the same policy there,
until the pursuit became too hot for them, run their vessel on shore
and escape to any one of the islands, there to enjoy the satisfaction
derived from the discharge of the duties evolved by the principles of
Southern patriotism and the policy of the leaders of this unholy
rebellion which commenced by treason, perjury, and theft, is cemented
by robbery, piracy, and murder. Supported by such acts, upheld by
such principles, its authors have had the blasphemous effrontery to
invoke the aid of heaven upon a course which is such a libel upon
humanity and such a blot upon the civilization of the nineteenth century.
	The scheme is abandoned for the present, and will not, I think, be
again renewed.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
S.	B. BIssELL,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Captain Powell, U. S. Navy, commandinq U. S. frigate Poto-
mac, regarding final rupture #~f foreign alliance in Mexico.
U.	S. FRIG-ATE POTOMAC,
Off Vera Cruz, April 15, 1862.
	Sin:	I have the honor to enclose herewith the extra Eco de Europa
of the 11th April, published at Orizaba, in which you will find the
account of the final rupture of the alliance, English and Spanish fun

Page 380

380	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

tionaries on the one side, the French on the other. The English and
Spanish withdraw at once, and both expect to embark and sail from
Vera Crnz on or before the 20th instant. The purposes of France are
thus in a manner disclosed. The French forces will hold what they
have, and, with troops arrived since my last dispatch of the 4th, will
mnster about 12,000 men of all arms. What forces the Mexicans have
embodied to resist the advance of the French army I have no means of
learning, except through rumor, upon which no reliance can be placed.
Great unanimity is known to prevail, how ever, throughout Mexico,
and a stout resistance may be looked for.
	I suppose that now France and Mexico may be considered as in a
state of open warfare. The talk of the Mexicans is to force the French
back to the hot coast lands and Vera (Jrnz, where the vomito will
complete their destruction. Already the fever is doing its work of
death amongst the troops on shore, and is increasing, as our vice-con-
sul writes me, with fearful rapidity.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
L.	M. POWELL,
Captain.
ibm GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary ~f the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Rogers, U. S. Navy, commanding
U.	S. bark W. G. Anderson, of cruise from March 20 to April 17, 18G2.
BOSTON, April 17, 18G2.
	SIR:	I last addressed you nuder date of March 20, giving details of
our cruise to that date, and have now the honor to report the safe
arrival of the W. U. Anderson at this port last evening in general good
order, nothing of importance having happened since my last dispatch.
A general summary of the cruise is, that we have sailed 20,300 miles,
seen 210 vessels, spoken and boarded 66, and satisfied ourselves of the
character of most of those seen, and I infer that Southern privateers
are very rare in the waters in which we have been.
	Agreeably to your orders, 1 cruised until most of our stores were quite
exhausted, when I returned with all dispatch to Boston for outfits and
repairs.
	Hoping that my proceedings during the cruise will meet with your
approbation,
I have the honor to be, respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. C. ROGERS,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant,
Commanding U. S. Bark W. U. Anderson.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Captain Powell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. frigate Potomac,
regarding foreign alliance in Mexico.

U. S. FRIGATE POTOMAC,
Off Vera Cruz, April 18, 1862.
	SIR:	I herewith enclose a paper which reached me this morning. It
will interest the State Department particularly, as it is not probable
that this reply of the French commissioners has yet reached the Unite

Page 381

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	381

States. Since the date of my last letters of the 15th instant, two troop
steamers have arrived with French troops, about 600 in number. II. B.
M. steam frigate ]liLersey is about embarking a portion of the Spanish
troops for transport to Havana, and the whole will ftdLow as soon as
they reach Vera Cruz from the interior.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
L.	M. POWELL, Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander Thatcher, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Con-
stellatio~, stating that the C. S. S. Sumter was abandoned at Gibraltar,
and announcing his intention of sailing for Algeciras.

U.	S. SHIP CONSTELLATION
Off Cadiz, April 23, ~l862.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform the Department that I arrived here
on the evening of the 18th instant from Lisbon, from which port I
sailed on the 14th, leaving the St. Louis in the Tagus. 1 found here
the liCearsarge, Commander Pickering, undergoing repairs in her
machinery. The Tuscarora remains off Algeciras, also the mo. The
Sumter has been laid up at Gibraltar and abandoned by her captain
and officers, except a small party left in charge of her, the crew having
been discharged.
	1 shall proceed into the Mediterranean in the execution of my instruc-
tions as soon as I receive a reply to an official letter which I have
addressed to Mr. Sprague, our consnl at Gibraltar, relative to the state
of our affairs in that vicinity; and, if no necessity exists of my anchor-
ing in English waters, I shall continue my course up the straits, touch-
ilig at the ports of importance where we have commercial interests.
Communications from the Department will be likely to reach me if
addressed care of William T. Rice, esq., U. S. consul at Spezia, with
whom I shall arrange to forward any letters to the various points at
which I may touch.
	April 26, 1862.Having just received a telegram, without date, from
Commander Craven, of the Tuscarora, off Algeciras, that my presence
is required there, I shall immediately sail for that place, although I
have also a letter, under date of the 24th instant, from Consul Sprague,
imi which he says, I fully approve of your determination not to enter
this port (Gibraltar). I, however, deem it my duty to confer with
Commander Craven in response to his telegram.
	I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	H. K. THATCHER,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Letter from Commander Pickering, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kear-
sarge, to Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. ZEus-
earora, stating his lack of definite information regarding the C. S. S.
Sumter.
U. S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Royal Dockyard, La Carraca, April 27, 1862.
	M~ DEAR CRAVEN: Your letter of the 24th instant was received last
-	evening. I was pleased to hear from you an expression of opinion a

Page 382

382	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.

to the position of affairs regarding the AS~umter. You say that if J am
prepared to report to the Department that the Sumter is disposed of J
am better posted than you are. All the information I have upon the
sui)ject is drawn from the enclosed, signed by our friend Sprague, and
from newspaper reports, in which the Sumter is or has been up for sale.
I have formed as yet no decided opinion as to her finis, and conse-
quently am prepared to make no report on the subject. I agree with
you that in the present state of affairs in relation to her it would not be
safe to relax vigilance.
	I onclose a copy of the only report I was prepared to make in regard
to the Sumter, written for the purpose of drawing front the Department,
if possible, some instructions to meet the altered condition of affairs
here and at home.
	I am afraid, Craven, that your patience will be entirely exhausted
before I can relieve it or enable you to draw your fires. The Sumter
may possibly draw your fire as soon as I your fires. I can not hurry
these Andalusians; their holidays exceed their working days, and you
must not calculate upon showing your number to the Kearsarge for these
ten days to come.
	Thatcher is here, and will sail for Algeciras to-morrow or next day.
I have not seen as much of him as I wished, owing to the distance
between our vessels and the high winds which have prevailed since his
arrival. I hope he will assume the prerogatives of the flag, as I feel
confident from the changed and changing state of affairs at home he
will eventually be required to do.
	Your note regarding the olives, etc., was duly received and attended
to. * * *
Yours, etc.,
C.	W. PICKERING.
	Commander T. AuGs. CRAVEN,
U.	S. S. Tuscarora, Algeciras.



Letter from the U. S. consul at Gibraltar to Commander Craven, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, relating to affairs in the United
States and the Mediterranean Sea.
APRIL 28, 18625 p. m.
	Mv DEAR SIR: The utails are in and I send you newspapers.
	My letters to the 1st inform me that the people were disgusted at the
Nashville having gotten out of Beaufort. Any quantity of Federal
steamers reached that quarter soon after she had escaped. Petitions
were being signed all over the country for the removal of the Secretary
of the Navy.
	The Journal of Commerce says that precedents in Mahomedan coun-
tries justified DeLong in arresting Myers and Tunstall.
	Big Bethel was in the hands of the rebels in great force. The Nar-
ragansett, ironclad boat, had reached Baltimore to coal and proceed to
the assistance of the ]Vlionitor, that was ready to meet the Merrimack.
Some even feared that the Merrimack would go and attack New York
and Boston. [Island] No. 10 always held its own against Porter
[Foote l].
	I have a letter from Captain Thatcher, of the Constellation, at Cadiz.
After some calking he intended to proceed up the Mediterranean, unless
I had anything to suggest to induce him to alter his views.
	I have also heard from Captain Pickering. He tells me that he doubt

Page 383

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
383

if the Kearsarge will be ready to return to Algeciras for two weeks, as
some castings were detaining the work of his engineers.
	As I shall have to write a reply to Captain Thatchers official note,
I wonid be glad to hear from you what you think about the matter. It
strikes me that the Constellation, like the mo, St. Louis, etc., being
sailing crafts, had better be crnising out than in the Mediterranean.
No rebel cruiser would find it to its interest to cruise within that sea.
Then, again, having always one steamer at Algeciras, by telegraph
we can always know what is going on up the Mediterranean within
a few hours. Give me your ideas and send them over to-morrow.
I repeat, I do not approve of our sailing ships going up the Medi-
terranean so long as we know everything is going on peaceably with
our commerce in that sea.
Yours, truly, in great haste,
II.	J. SPRAGUE.
	[Commander T. A. CRAVEN,
Commanding U. AS~. S. Tuscarora.]



Report of Plag- Officer Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific Squadron
of disturbances in the State of Sonora Me
ures relative thereto.	, wico, transmitting enclos
U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER
Navy Yard, Mare Island, Cal., April 30, 1862.
	SIR: I have the hoiior to inform you that I received this morning a
letter from Brigadier-General [George] Wright, commanding the U. S.
Military Department of the Pacific, enclosing copies of letters from the
U. S. consul at Guaymas, printed copies of which I herewith enclose.
I also enclose a printed copy of a letter from a gentleman at Guaymas,
which explains the state of affairs in the State of Sonora. William L.
Baker, esq., U. S. coiisul at Guaymas, informs General Wright that
the state of aftairs in Sonora is daily becoming niore complicated, the
result of ~vhich it is difficult to determine. The St. JIIarys is now cruis-
ing in the vicinity of San BIas, Mazatlan, and Manzanillo, aiid I have
this day sent an order to Commander Middleton to proceed at once to
Guaymas and remain there until fiirt her orders. I enclose you a copy
of this order; also the last order to Commander Stanly, of the Narra-
gansett. As our letter bag is about to close, I have no time to send
you manuscript col)ies of the enclosed letters, which I believe are cor-
rectly priiited.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully,
CHARLES H. BELL,
Flag- Officer, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
[Enclosures.]


U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Navy Yard, Mare Island, Cal., April 29, 1862.
	SIR:	Information having reached here from reliable sources that a
conspiracy is about forming between the rebel General Sibley and the
Mexican governor of Sonora which may compromise American inter.
ests in that vicinity, you will proceed immediately to Guaymas, Mexico

Page 384

384	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

You will consult with William L. Baker, esq., American consul, and Mr.
F. II. Waterman, an American merchant resident ill Guaymas, upon
whom you can rely for correct information. You will remain at Guay-
mas until further orders, and I wish you to write to me as soon as you
can obtain reliable information in regard to the state of affairs in that
part of the Mexican territory.
Very respectfully, yours,
		CHAS. II. BELL,
Flag- Officer, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Commander EDWARD MIDDLETON,

Commanding U. S. Ship St. Marys, Manzanillo.


U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Navy Yard, JlIare Island, Cal., April 19, 1862.
	SIR: When you are in all respects ready, you will proceed to San
Diego, where you will remain for a few days. I wish you to endeavor
to ascertain the feeling of the people in that vicinity in regard to the
Union, but in doing so be careful not to create a feeling of distrust on
your part. You will do well to hint that a man of- war will be sent
occasionally to look after our interests in that quarter. On your way
you can stop at Point Conception to attend to the settlement of your
former duties at that place. Endeavor to return within three weeks.
	Very respectfully, yours,	CHAS. II. BELL,

Flag- Ojicer, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Commander FABIUS STANLY,
Commanding U. S. S. Narragansett, San Francisco.



Report of Commander Frailey, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Quaker
City, requesting that his ship be transferred to the Atlantic or Gulf
Squadron, and calling attention to two supposed blockade runners.

U.	S. S. QUAKER CITY,
St. Thomas West Indies, April 30,1862.
	SIR: I avail myself of an opportunity offering by the departure of a
transient vessel for New York on to-morrow to inform you of my return
to this anchorage on the 16th from a visit to the island of Santa Cruz,
to which I proceeded on the 5th for the purpose of replenishing our
stock of water, that indispensable article being very scarce on this
island, and for which owners of water tanks demanded the enormous
price of 9 cents per gallon, while in Santa Cruz it was purchased for 1~
cents.
	No information has yet been received as to the movements of the
rebel steamer Nashville since she escaped from Beaufort, but presume
that on the arrival of the Halifax, Havana, Aspinwail, or Southampton
steamers, on about the 3d proximo, something definite will be learned
in relation to her movements.
	Our supply of provisions, small stores, and clothing being almost
entirely expended, it will be necessary for me to proceed early next
week to Key West for the purpose of replenishing.
	Since leaving Cura~ao on the 17th of last mouth, there have bee

Page 385

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	385

seventy-two cases of remittent fever on board among the officers and
crew. The list to-day shows twenty-five cases still, but it appears to
yield readily to medical treatment, and, I am pleased to add, all the
patients appear to be doing well.
	I would most earnestly but respectfully request of the honorable
the Secretary of the Navy, in behalf of myself, officers, and crew, a
revocation of my instructions of December 14, 1861, and that the ship
which I have the honor to command may be transferred to the Atlantic
or Gulf Squadron, where an opportunity may be afforded us of render-
ing more efficient services to our country and acquire some of the
renown which is now being shed upon the gallant body of men attached
to vessels on our coast and western waters.
	I regret to report the death of the late Governor II. II. Berg, of this
island and St. John, which sad event occurred on the 15th instant,
after a very protracted illness of several months. The vacancy has
been filled by the temporary appointment of the chamberlain, Rothe,
who assumed the functions of his office on the 22d instant.
	1 deem it due to the Department to state that on the 25th instant two
English steamers, the Circassian, Captain Hunter, 1,046 tons, loaded
with saltpeter, and the Minho, Captain Parke, 1,245 tons, with a gen-
eral cargo, put in here for coal. They left here again on the 27th and
28th, ostensibly bound to Havana, but their captains had no hesita-
tion in publicly saying on shore their object was to attempt to run the
blockade.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	JAS. MADISON FRALLEY,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

ST. THOMAS, May 2, 1862.
	P. S.An opportunity having offered to-day by the departure of the
French steamer of war Bertholier for Havana, I availed myself of it
to address a communication to Flag-Officer W. W. McKean, giving him
the information of the steaming from this port of the two British screw
steamers Circassiar&#38; and Minho, for Havana ostensibly, but evidently
with the intention to run the blockade if possible.
JAS. MADISON FRAILEY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.


Report of Commander Thatcher, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship
Constellation, stating that a close watch is kept upon the C. S. S. Sumter
at Gibraltar.
U.	S. SHIP CONSTELLATION,
Off Algeciras, Bay of Gibraltar, May 1, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform the Department that I arrived at
this port from Cadiz on the 30th ultimo, to communicate with Coin-
mnander Craven, of the Tusearora. I observed that the Sumter, now
anchored under the guns of Gibraltar, has her fore-and-aft sails still
bent, which looks like an intention to use them should opportunity offer
for her escape, but as Commander Craven has steam up at all times,
and a close watch kept upon her movements, I think she can not pos-
sibly get to sea again.
I have the honor to enclose a correspondence, a copy of which I for-
123A2

Page 386

386	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

ward to the State Department at the request of Mr. Sprague, relative
to the murder of an American missionary and his servant near Alex-
andretta, detailing the prompt and vigorous action in the case by the
English naval officer, Commander A. C. Hobart, of H. B.M. S. Foxhound,
who was fortunately near the place~of assassination. The facts detailed
in his letter of the 5th ultimo render it almost certain that the culprits
have been punished. I shall, unless otherwise ordered by the Depart-
ment, visit that coast in this ship in the course of the summer, with the
view of affording protection to Americans who may reside there. I
shall leave here at an early day for the commercial ports to the east-
ward.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
HENRY K. THATCHER,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.


Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Creesy, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. ship mo, stating his intention to return to the United States in
consequence of the abandonment of the C. S. S. Sumter.

U. S. SHIP INO,
Cadiz Bay, May 1, 1862.
	SIR:	On reperusal of my instructions I have come to the conclusion
to leave this [port] immediately for Boston, the object of my visit in
these waters having been accomplished so far as is possible to do so,
she C. S. S. Sumterj having been abandoned by her captain and eight
of her officers in neutral waters.
I have the honor to be, your most obedient servant,
JOSIAH P. CREESY,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Volunteer Lieutenant tireesy,
U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship mo, directing that the property of
Mr. Tunstall be forwarded to State Department for restoration to him.

NAvY DEPARTMENT, May 6, 1862.

	SIR:	The Hon. Win. H. Seward, Secretary of State, in a communi-
cation to this Department, says that it is understood when Mr. Tun-
stall was delivered to the U. S. ship mo, certain property was taken
from him by the commander of that vessel, and asks that instructions
may be given for the restoration of the same to Mr. Tunstall, it being
believed that there was not sufficient ground for the proceeding. The
Department therefore directs that you will forward to its care the
Droperty referred to by the first opportunity that offers, in order that
it may be restored to its owner.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.j
Acting	Volunteer Lieutenant JOSIAH P. CREESY, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. Ship mo, Gibraltar

Page 387

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
387

Report of Captain Watkins of arrival at Hongkong for the command
of U. ~. ~. &#38; tginaw, and intended departure for California.

U.	S. S. SAGINAW,
Iuliongkonq, i}Iay 10, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you of my arrival at this place on
the 30th ultimo, when I learned the Saginaw had been recently ordered
by the British colonial government out of the harbor, and had found
refuge in the harbor of Macao, whither I proceeded the following day.
flaying taken charge of the Saginaw, and finding her iii condition for
removal, we proceeded on the 2d instant to Whampoa, where exist
ample facilities for any amount of repairs upon the ship.
	Immediately upon my arrival we made an examination of her frames
and planking, and although we found the ship very rotten abaft her
mainmast, indeed many of her upper futtocks entirely gone, yet there
was sufficient sound wood to enable me to put her in condition for the
safe performance of the voyage to San Francisco, and at a very small
expense, for her repairs of every nature are less than $500. Most of
the timber that is rotten is the laurel, but there is a great deal of it
perfectly sound, and I am confident if the wood is cut with proper care,
say between the months of November and March, and docked, that it
will prove to be as fine ship timber as any in the United States. The
Saginaw could not have gone to sea from here with safety as a man-of-
war, without very extensive and expensive repairs.
	As I have had a crew to ship and stores to purchase, my disburse-
ments are rather high, but I shall have ample means for all without
using your credit on Messrs. Baring Brothers &#38; Co., of London.
	Messrs. iRussell &#38; Co. have kindly furnished me with sufficient coal,
50 tons, to carry the ship to Shanghai, and I am under great obligations
to those gentlemen for many facilities rendered me. I am very fortu-
nate in having Mr. McDougal with me as my executive officer; he has
been of the first importance to me since I took command of the ship.
	We sail from here immediately for Shanghai, where I shall fill the
ship with coal for California, and shall inform you fully of my move-
ments from there.
I remain, with great respect, your obedient servant,
JAMES T. WATKINS.

Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.




Order from Secretary of the Navy to Commander Ridgely, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S~ S. Santiago de Cuba, to proceed to Nassau, New
Providence.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, May 13, 1862.
	SIR: Proceed with the Santiago de Cuba, under your command, with-
out delay to Nassau, New Providence.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
	Commander D. B. RIDGELY,
Commanding U. S. S. Santiago de Cuba New York

Page 388

388	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from the Assistant Secretary of the Navy to Commander Ridgely
U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Santiago de Cuba, giving information
regarding the rumored presence of the Oreto in harbor of Nassau, New
Providence.
NAvY DEPARTMENT, May 15, 18G2.
	SIR: I transmit herewith an extract from a communication, dated at
Nassau, New Providence, the 2d instant, ad dressed by Chas. Jackson,
esq., to the chairman of the Nassau agency at New York, concerning a
steamer that has arrived at the formei port, and is supposed to be
intended for a rebel privateer. This steamer is no doubt the Oreto.
Three or four others were at Nassau, at the last accounts, with arms,
etc., for the insurgents, the Minna and Stettin among them.
I am, respectfully, etc.,
G.	V. Fox,
Acting Secretary.
	Commander I). B. RIDGELY,
Commanding U. S. S. Santiago de Cuba, New York.


Letter from the Assistant Secretary of the Navy to Commander Ridgely,
U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Santiago de Cuba, caUing attention
to steamer Melita, suspected of intention of running the blockade.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, May 15, 1SG2.
	SIR:	The U. S. consul at Hamburg, under date of the 20th ultimo,
reports the sailing, on the day previous, of the steamer Melita for Nassau.
She has on board a valuable cargo of arms, etc., destined, it is suspected,
for the insurgents.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
G.	V. Fox,
Acting Secretary.
Commander D. B. RIDGELY,
Commanding U. S. S. Santiago de Cuba, New York.


Report of Commander Mann, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship St.Louis,
announcing his intention to start on a cruise immediately.

U. S. SHIP ST. Louis,
Lisbon, Portugal, May iG, 18G2.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform the Department that I shall sail
to-morrow, from this place, on a cruise. I have not heard of any inter-
ruption to our commerce in these vicinities, and I have, therefore, reason
to believe that there are no rebel or piratical cruisers.
	At the request of the Hon. Mr. Harvey, our minister, I have delayed
departure for some daysthat with a desire to learn the important
news from our country. There is apparently no further cause for delay.
	I beg leave to call the attention of the Department to the very high
price of salt provisions for the ship. The paymaster has had to pay
$26.55 for pork, and $23.89 per barrel for beef.
11 am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	M. C. MARLN,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy (U. S.), Washington, D. C

Page 389

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	389

Letter of Hon. S. C. Fessenden, U. S. House of Representatives, to the
Assistant Secretary of the Navy, requesting railroad passes for crews
of two vessels.

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, D. C., May 16, 1862.
	SIR:	October 30, 1861, brig B. K. Eaton, of Searsport, Me., W. C.
Nichols, master, was captured by privateer Sally, crew and captain car-
ried to Charleston, thence to Columbia, thence to Richmond, and were
prisoners there until last Saturday night, when they were sent on, with
others, to Washington. Brig B. K. Eaton sailed from New York loaded
with lime and cement, in employment of Government. These seamen
wish for passes to return home on line of railroad, according to list here-
with submitted.
	November 2, steamship Osceola, a Government transport with Du
Ponts fleet, shipwrecked at Georgetown, S. C.; crew prisoners in Rich-
mond until last Sunday, and are now here in Washington and want
passes home. I hope they may have them.
I am, yours, respectfully,
SAML. C. FESSENDEN.

	Assistant Secretary Fox.





Order from the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Craven, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. steam sloop Tuscarora, to remain at Algeciras and
watch C. S. S. Sumter.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, May 21, 1862.
	SIR:	You will remain at Algeciras, watching the Sumter, until further
instructions from the Department.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
	Commander T. A. CRAVEN, -
Commanding U. S. Steam Sloop Tuscarora, Algeciras.




Report of Commander Ridgely, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. San-
tiago de Cuba, announcing his departure frorn~ Sandy Hook.

U.	S. S. SANTIAGO DE CUBA,
Off Sandy Hook, ]lliay 24, 1862.
	SIR:	I hereby inform the Department that the Santiago de Cuba is
at sea.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
DANL. B. RIDGELY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 390

390	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS~UNION.

Report of Captain Powell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. frigate PotQmac,
mentioning French affairs in Mexico, and stating that the ship under
his command was no longer fit for cruising.

U.	S. FRIGATE POTOMAC,
Off Key West, May 29, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of this ship, under my
command, yesterday, nine days from Vera Cruz. There was little addi-
tion touching affairs in Mexico since the date of my last dispatch.
After several repulses, the French force designed to renew the assault
upon Puebla, the result of which will perhaps reach you before this.
My officers and men are in good health. The ship is fast running
down and is no longer fit for cruising as a ship of war, in my opinion.
The disclosures of decay in vital points indicates a softness, generally,
that would make it judicious to withdraw her from active service when
it can be done conveniently.
	Our mails have gone to the westward, so that I have found no com-
munications here from the Department no
Officer Farragut.	r indeed any from Flag
I am, sir, very respectfully, your most obedient servant,
	L. M. POWELL,
	Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.




Report of Commander Thatcher, if. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship
Constellation, stating the good feeling manifested towards the U. S.
Government at Spezia, Italy.

U.	S. SHIP CONSTELLATION,
Genoa, May 29, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform the Department that I arrived at
Spezia from the bay of Gibraltar on the 15th instant, and remained
there until the 27th, en gaged in the survey of all the United States
naval stores left at that port, in compliance with an order of the
Department addressed to the acting storekeeper, and in overhauling
and refitting rigging, as well as drilling the crew at target l)ractice. I
anchored here on the 28th instant, and found from fifteen to twenty
American merchant ships in port, lading and discharging.
	I am happy to inform the Department that both the civil and naval
authorities at Spezia and at this port have manifested the greatest
good feeling for our Government and flag, and that the naval com-
mandant at Spezia and the admiral here have, in the most cordial
manner, tendered ns all the assistance which their arsenals afford, and
have supplied us gratuitously with water.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

	I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	HENRY K. THATCHER,
	Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington

Page 391

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION,	391

Report of Flag- Officer Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific Squadron,
of the strength of the French and English forces on the Pacific coast,
accompanied by list of the vessels.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Navy Yard, Mare Island, Cal., May 29,1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to enclose for your information a list of the
English and French naval forces on this coast, as far as I can ascertain
them from what I conceive to be reliable sources. A number of the Eng-
lish vessels on this list were sent from india and the China Seas immedi-
ately after the Trent affair, in order to be prepared for hostilities with
the United States. In the present state of the defenses of this harbor,
one-half of this force could command the city of San Francisco and take
possession of this yard. I have not been able to ascertain the strength
of the French ships, several of which are now engaged in blockading
the Mexican ports from Guaymas to Acapulco.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully,
CHAS. II. BELL,
Flag- Officer, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosure.]

List of Fresseh Government vessels on the Pacific Station, May 29, 1862.
Le vainqueur Le Dugnay, croisier steamer.	Lavis Le Cassini, screw.
La corvette La Bayonnaise.	Lavis Le Diarnant, screw.
La corvette La Galathie.	    Lamothe Piquet, screw.
La corvette La Corn6lie.

Li8t of H. B. M. 8hip8 on the Pacific Station, May, 1862.
Bacchante, 51 guns, steam frigate.	Naiad, 6 guns, storeship.
Cameleon, 17 guns, steam sioop.	Nereus, 6 guns, storeship.
Charybdi8, 21 guns, steam corvette.	Termagant, 25 guns, steam frigate.
Ciio, 22 guns, steam corvette.	Topaze, 51 guns, steam frigate.
Devastation, 6 guns, steam sloop.	Grappler, gunboat.
Hecate, 6 guns, steam sloop.	Forward, guaboat.
Mutine, 17 guns, steam sloop.






[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, May 30, 1862.

	A privateer has appeared in the Chinese waters. The Wyoming must
be repaired with all the dispatch possible, without regard to repairs
for thirty months service. Send her to Manila direct.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy.
	Flag-Officer C. II. BELL,
Or, in his absence,
The COMMANDANT OF NAVY YARD,
San Francisco, Cal

Page 392

392	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Plag- Officer Bell, U. S. Navy,
commanding Pacific Squadron, expressing approval of the course pur-
sued for protection of American interests in Mexican waters.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, May 31, 1862.

	SIR: The iDepaitment has received your No.30 and enclosures, relat-
ing to the condition of affairs in Sonora. You have anticipated the
wishes of the Department in (liSpatching a vessel immediately to
Guaymas for the protection of American interests there. Your com-
munication has been received of the appearance of a rebel armed
steamer mounting eight rifled guns in the Chinese waters.
	You ~were yesterday telegraphed to push forward the repairs on the
Wyoming without regard to thirty months service, and send her to
Manila direct, at which point some informatior of the movements of
the rebel steamer may probably be obtained.
	The Department also acknow1edge~ the receipt of your Nos. 24, 25,
and 27.
I am, respectfully, etc.,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Flag-Officer UnAs. ~. BELL,	[Secretary of the Navy.]
Commanding Pacific Squadron.


Report of Commander Graven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tusca-
rora, in reference to property taken from Mr. Tunstall, and making
charges against Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Greesy, U. S. Navy.

U.	S. S. TUSCARORA,
A lgeciras, June 1, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that your letter of May 6, addressed
to Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Creesy, came to me, as senior officer,
by this days Inail. In connection with the subject-matter of that
letter, 1 have to report that I did not learn that private property had
been taken from Mr. Tuinstall until after the prisoners had been shipped
for the United States and the mo had returned to this anchorage. It
was then communicated to me by one of the officers of this ship, who
had seen the gold watch in the possession of the acting paymaster of
the mo. The Kearsarge being present, I at once informed my senior
officer of the matter.
	I have now to report to you that the mo sailed from here on 27th
April without any authority from me and in contemptuous disregard
of my presence; she went to Cadiz, and from there was ordered flume-
diately back to this place by Commander Pickering, who gave Acting
Volunteer Lieutenant Creesy important consular dispatches for me.
The ship left Cadiz about 1st May, but has not returned here, and I
have reason to believe that Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Creesy has
abandoned his station here and gone on some independent cruise. I
have had no intelligence of his whereabouts, and must confess I should
not be surprised to hear of some extraordinary conduct on his part.
	On the 28th and 29th April 1 sent to you a formal report and
charges against Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Creesy.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T.	AUGS. CRAVEN,
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
	Secretary of the Navy.	Commander

Page 393

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	393

Jietter from the Secretary of the ATavy to the agent of the California mail
steamers, offering assistance to the company in protecting the steamers
from Confederate privateers.
NAVY DEPARTMRNT, June 5, 1862.
	The Department has information of the concentration of a large
number of steamers at Nassau, New Providence, engaged in the
interest of the insurgents. The object of most of them is doubtless to
run the blockade if possible, but some of them may be fitted out for
piratical purposes. In anticipation of the latter course, it would be
well to take measures for the protection of the California steamers on
the route between New York arid Aspinwall. The Department will
gladly assist the company in this object. It will furnish rifle guns for
them and a sufficient number of seamen to work them, the company
subsisting at their expense the seamen. It will also, if desired, appoint
the commanders of the steamers acting masters in the Navy, but
without pay. Until the steamers are prepared in themselves to repel
an attack, the Department will direct the gunboat Cayuga at New York
to act as convoy over the part of the route where danger is most likely
to be apprehended. The Caynga is not, however, a fast steamer.
I am, respectfully,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
AGENT OF THE CALIFORNIA MAIL STEAMERS,
New York.


Report of Commander iVfarin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship St.
Louis, stating that the United States flag was received with satisfaction
in the Canary Islands.
U.	S. SHIP ST. LOUIS,
Santa Cruz, island of Teneriffe, June 12, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report my visit to this island, at which
place I arrived on the 30th ultimo; and I purpose to sail again on the
214th instant, after the arrival of the mail.
	Commerce remained uninterrupted, and I am pleased to state that
the appearance of our flag everywhere gives munch satisfaction, and
that much courtesy has been extended to us in the ports that I have
visited.
The health of the officers and crew continues generally good.
I am, sir, very respectftilly, your obedient servant,
	M. C. MARIN,
	lion. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington D. C.



Report ~f 6ommander Pickering, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. steam
sloop Kearsarge, of information received at Gibraltar regarding the C.
S. S. Sumter.
U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Algeciras, June 18, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report the arrival of the Kearsarge at this
port on the evening of the 8th instant, having been detained two
months at the royal dockyard, Cadiz, undergoing . repairs upo

Page 394

394	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

machinery, which could have oeeu effected at any of our own dock-
yards in as many weeks. The new circulating pump plunger was found,
when nearly completed, to be slightly defective, but upon consultation
with the chief engineer I determined to use it temporarily until a new
casting could be made. While at the dockyard I made such repairs
upon the ship as were deemed absolutely necessary.
	Since my arrival at this port I have had an interview with Consul
Sprague, at Gibraltar, concerning the Sumter, her condition, present
intentions, etc., the result of which has convinced me that it would not
be wise to leave her unguarded.
	The Tuscarora sailed for Cadiz this morning. The storeship Release
will sail for Spezia as soon as she completes watering ship.
	Officers and crew all well.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERING,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Order of Flag- Officer Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacifte Squadron,
to Commander MeDougal, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Wyoming,
to cruise in the China Seas in search of a Confederate privateer.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Navy Yard, Mare island, Cal., June 16, 1862.
	SIR: When you are in all respects ready you will proceed to sea in the
U. S. S. Wyoming, under your command, and, notwithstanding your pre-
vious orders from the Navy Department, you will go at once to Manila,
the capital of the Philippine Islands. Information has reached Wash-
ington that a rebel privateer is cruising in the China Seas. You will
therefore, on your arrival at Manila, endeavor to obtain such intelli-
gence as may lead to her capture. It is probable that instructions from
the Navy Department may await your arrival, in default of which you
will be governed by your best judgment to effect the object of your
cruise, to protect American commerce in those seas. Should you meet
with the U. S. S. Saginaw, you are authorized to transfer Lieutenant
Charles [J. J MeDougal from that ship to the Wyoming.
	Wishing you a pleasant and successful cruise,
I am, very respectfully, yours,
CHAS. II. BELL,
Flag. Officer, Commanding Pacijic Squadron.
	Commander D. MCDoUGAL,
Commanding U. S. S. Wyoming, Mare Island.



Report of Captain alendy, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Saratoga, of
arrival at Madeira.

U.	S. S. SARATOGA,
Funchal, Island of Madeira, June 16, 1862.
	SIR: I have arrived at this port, as I ad vised you I should be coin-
pelled to do in my dispatch of the 5th of April last, and shall retur

Page 395

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	395

to my cruising ground as soon as I shall have accomplished the object
of my visit.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. M. GLENDY,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEoN WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



[Tekgram.]

LONDON, June 23, 1862, via Madrid.
	Come to England as soon as ready, and report to Mr. Adams imine-
diately on arrival.
MORAN.
Captain CRAVEN,
Frigate [Steam Sloop] Tuscarora.



Report of Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tusca-
rora, of intention to proceed to England, in response to dispatch from
Hon. C. F. Adams.
U. S. S. TUSCARORA,
Cadiz, June 25, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report to you that, having been relieved at
Algeciras by the Kearsarge, on the 12th instant, I came to this place to
overhaul the ship and engines. Our fires have been steadily kept up
from the 14th [of] December to my arrival here, on the 15th instant.
Some very trifling repairs are needed, and I expect to be ready for sea
July 1, when I will sail for England, having yesterday received a dis-
patch from Mr Adams requesting the presence of this ship.
	I have the honor to suggest that any important communications from
the Navy Department to mae be folded as private letters, amid without
the official frank, as nearly all of the letters from the Department
which came to me at Gibraltar came with seals broken and mutilated
envelopes. 1 of course do not know if I have received all you have
sent me, but it is evident that letters are opened in England.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T. AUGS. CRAVEN,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Commander Mann, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship St.
Louis, of arrival cit the island of Fayal, and condition of affairs at
that place.
U. S. SHIP ST. LOUIS,
Island of Fayal, June 26, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report to the Department my arrival at this
island, having arrived here on the 21st instant. So far as I can learn,
commerce meets with no interruption. This morning the Spanis

Page 396

396	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS~UNION.

steamer of war Ulloa, bearing General Prim, came into the harbor,
when I had the honor of saluting the Spanish general.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	M. C. MARIN,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commander Pickering, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. steam
sloop Kearsarge, transmitting correspondence regarding the guarding
of C. S. S. Sumter.
U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Aigeciras, July 3, 1862.
	SIR: On the 18th ultimo I had the honor to acknowledge the
receipt of your instruction dated 21st of May, since which acknowl-
edgment I have been awaiting the arrival of the Tuscarora. To-day I
received the enclosed letter from Captain Craven, marked A. The
Department will see from enclosed copies of letter addressed to me by
the consul at Gibraltar a few days since, marked B, and my answer
to the same (C), the necessity of my further detention here. I also
enclose copy of letter * addressed tc Captain Craven, marked D.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERING,
	Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

LEnclosures.]

A.
U.	S. S. TUSCARORA,
Cadiz, June 29, 1862.
	DEAR SIR: I last night received your dispatch. The doenment to
which yon refer reached me on the 25th, and after my note to you had
gone.
	I on the 23d received from the legation in London a telegram,
requesting my immediate presence in England, and, as nmy original
instructions subject me to being advised by the U. S. minister to
England, 1 can not disregard his dispatch, which I presume refers to
some matters not yet known in Washington and of an urgemit nature.
	I have named to Mr. Adams the 1st July as my earliest possible
day for leaving here, and I will go at that time, though not having
completed our repairs. On mny arrival at Southampton I will, as soon
as I have communicated with Mr. Adams, inform you of my probable
detention and of the time you may expect mny return to relieve you.
	For four months have 1 watched the Sumter voluntarily, while all
of those vessels which were sent after her seem to have got clear of the
duty assigned them. I however receive the order of the Department
as a complimentary appreciation of the confidence of the Government
as to the manner in which I have discharged mny duties.
Respectfully and truly, yours,
	T. AUGS. CRAVEN,
	Commander C. W. PICKERING,	6~ommander.
U.	S. S. Kearsarge.
found

Page 397

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS~-UNION.	397

B.
JUNE 30, 1S62.
	SIR:	Understanding that Mr. Adams, our minister at London, has
by telegraph called for the 111. S. S. Tuscarora, now at Cadiz, I take the
liberty of availing of the earliest opportunity to express the hope that
you will not leave this station in the U. S. S. Kearsarge until another
Federal steamer supplies her place, or until you advise with Mr. Adams
or the Navy Department on this subject.
	As you are well aware the steamer Sumter remains at anchor in this
port. I know nothing about her to induce me to believe that she will
make new attempts to renew her unlawful vocation still , so long as
there exist Southern commissioners and others in favor of secession in
Europe who ari naturally anxious to favor their cause, would it be pru-
dent to leave the Sumter to herself and run the risk of allowing her to
proceed to sea unmolested? I think not. Indeed, I consider it most
important that we should continue to keep up efficient measures to pro-
vide, not only for this contingency, but also for the appearance in these
waters of any other crafts flying the secession flag. This surveillance
upon the Sumter ought to be continued rigidly, and as sailing vessels of
war are not adapted to the present necessities, it is essential that the
Federal vessel assigned to permanent ditty in these waters should be
a steamer.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
	HORATIO J. SPRAGUE,
	Captain C. W. PICKERING,	U. S. Consul.
U.	S. S. Kearsarge, off Algeciras.

C.
U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Algeciras Bay, July 1, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communi-
catioii of yesterday, urging the necessity of my remaining at Algeciras
with the steam sloop under my command. I am very desirous of pur-
suing late instructions from the Navy Department, which are much in
unison with my own wishes, but, yielding to the force of your remarks
and the fact that the withdrawal of this ship from these waters was
ordered nuder the implied contin~ency of the Tuscarora being available
and sufficient for all requirements here, I shall remain until the arrival
of Commander Craven or further instructions from the honorable the
Secretary of the Navy.
I am, very respectfully,
	C. W. PICKERING,
	HORATIO J. SPRAGUE, Esq.,	Commander.
U. S. Consul, Gibraltar.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Winslow. U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. R. B. Cuyler, to touch at Nassau, New Providence,
and ascertain the purpose and destination of steamer Oreto.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 4, 1862.
	SIR:	The Department has information that the fast-sailing steamer
Oreto, now at Nassau, has been fitted for war purposes, and the intelli-
gence received is of such a character as to leave little doubt that she
is to be employed in hostile demonstrations toward this Government

Page 398

398	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

its commerce, and its people. Under these circumstances, it is deemed
proper that you touch at Nassau ou your way to Key West with the
P. II. Guyler, to ascertain the facts in regard to this vessel, her purposes,
and destination.
	It is to be presumed that the authorities will in good faith observe
and maintain the friendly relatioiis that exist between her Majestys
Government and the United States, and not permit hostile measures
against our Government and people to be instituted or carried on within
their jurisdiction. You will,therefore, on your arrival at ~assau, put
yourself in communication with our consul, Mr. Whiting, advising hini
of the object which you have in view, and of your intention and instruc-
tion while prosecuting your duties to preserve the peaceable and friendly
relations that now exist. While it will be your duty always to guard
the rights and property of our country and people from hostile aggres-
sion, you will scrupulously observe and regard the rights and property
of others. The duty committed to you is delicate and highily responsibls,
and the Department has confidence you will discharge it with ability.
	It is believed the flag and authority of Great Britain have been abused
for aggressive purposes, contrary to the spirit of the proclamation, and
that ceaseless efforts have been made by the rebels and others in corn-
plicit~y with them to violate the blockade from and through Nassau and
its vicinity. Transshipmeuts are known to have been there extensively
made of arms, munitions, and subsistence for the rebels, and it is under-
stood that there are at this time a large number of vessels concentrated
at that point with cargoes designed for the rebels.
	You will, on your passage and while cruising, exercise vigilance to
detect and capture any vessel having on board conti-aband of war, in
no instance violating neutral rights or trespassing within the waters
of a neutral power.
	As the Oreto is professedly a British vessel it is not anticipated that
objection will be made to your vigilance respecting her at Nassau or
elsewhere. Should objection be made, however, you will avoid any
offensive act, and on ascertaining, as far as possible, the facts, and
becoming satisfied that you can render no further service, you will pro-
ceed to your station at Key West, reporting your proceeding, either at
that l)ort or Nassau, to the Department.
	The notorious Semmes, recently of the Sumter, is reported to have
arrived at Nassau almost simultaneously with the Oreto, having with
him a portion of the Sumters crew.
	Should circumstances be such as to warrant your remaining at Nassau
any length of time, communicate the fact to Flag-Officer Lard ner.
I am, respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
	Commander FRANCIS WINSLOW, U. S. Navy,
commanding u. S. S. B. B. Cuyler, Boston.


Report of Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tusca-
rora, of intention to return as soon as possible from England to the
relief of U. S. S. Kearsarge in watching C. S. S. Sumter.

U.	S. LEGATION, London, July 9, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report to you that while lying at Cadiz,
making repairs, etc., I on the 25th of June received from the U. S.
minister at London a dispatch requesting my immediate presence i

Page 399

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	399

England. Two days subsequently I received your order of May 21,
forwarded from Algeciras by Commander Pickering, who was keeping
guard on the Sumter. Believing that the case was one which
demanded from me prompt action in furtherance of the designs of Mr.
Adams, I delayed no longer than was necessary for important repairs
and sailed for Southampton 2d July, arriving at that place 7th.
	Immediately on arrival I came to London and had an interview with
Mr. Adams. In accordance with his wishes I am constrained to remain
within the reach of easy communication. I am finishing my repairs at
Southampton and will leave there for some point on the French coast
to await further information from the U. S. minister. Mr. Adams, I
presume, has informed the State Department of the causes of my
detention, and I have not a doubt that you will approve of my action
on this occasion. I will return to my ship to-night, and will write you
more fully.
	So soon as no cause exists for my longer absence from Algeciras, I
wiJi return there and relieve the Kearsarge.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
	T. AUGs. CRAVEN,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander.
Secretary of the Navy.


	Order of Secretary #~f the Navy to Commander Gansevoort, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. steam sloop Adirondack, to proceed to sea under sealed
instructions.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 11, 1862.
	SIR: The order to you of the 27th ultimo is hereby revoked. Enclosed
are sealed instructions which you will open after getting to sea and
proceed in their execution. Leave New York with the Adirondack
the moment she is ready.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,

Commander G. GANSEVOORT,	[Secretary of the Navy.j
Commanding U. S. Steam Sloop Adirondack.
[Enclosure.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 11, 1862.

	SIR: The Department has information that the fast-sailing steamer
Orcto, now or recently at Nassau, New Providence, has been fitted for
war purposes, and the intelligemice received is of such a character as
to ]eave little doubt that she is to be employed in hostile demonstrations
toward this Government, its commerce, and its people.
	The notorious Semmes, recently of the Sumter, is reported to have
arrived at INassau almost simultaneously with the Oreto, having with
him a portion of the Sumters crew. Under these circumstances it is
deemed proper to send the Adirondack to Nassau to ascertain the facts
in regard to the Oreto, her purpose and destination.
	It is to be presumed that the authorities will in good faith observe
and maintain the friendly relations that exist between her Majestys
Government and the United States, and not permit hostile measures
against our Government and people to be instituted or carried on within
their jurisdiction. You will, therefore, on your arrival at Nassau, put
yourself in communication with our consul, Mr. Whiting, advising him
of the object which you have in view and of your intention and instru

Page 400

400	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

tions, while prosecuting your duties, to preserve the peaceable and
friendly relations that now exist. While it will be your duty always to
guard the rights and property of our country and people from hostile
aggression, you will scrupulously observe and regard the rights and
property of others. The duty commended to you is delicate and highly
responsible, and the Department has confidence you will discharge it
with ability.
	It is believed the flag and authority of Great Britain have been abused
for aggressive purposes, contrary to the spirit of her Majestys procla-
mation, and that ceaseless efforts have been made by the rebels and
others in complicity with them to violate the blockade from and through
Nassau and its vicinity. Transshipments are known to have been
made there of arms, munitions, and subsistence for the rebels, and it
is understood there are at this time a large number of vessels concen-
trated at that point with cargoes designed for the rebels.
	As the Oreto is professedly a British vessel, it is not anticipated that
objection will be made to your vigilance respecting her at Nassau or
elsewhere. Should such objection be made, however, you will avoid
any offensive act. Upon ascertaining as far as possible the facts rela-
tive to the Oreto, or on becoming satisfied that you can render no further
service by remaining at Nassau, you will return to Hampton Roads and
forward to the Department a report of your proceedings.
	Early information of the condition of affairs about Nassau is desired,
and you will therefore communicate with the Department by the earliest
opportunity. Should the Oreto or any other armed vessel have left
Nassau with the intention of hostile demonstrations against our Gov-
ernment, its commerce, or people, you will proceed with the Adiron-
dack in pursuit of her.
	You will, on your passage and while cruising, exercise vigilance to
detect and capture any vessel having on board contraband of war
designed for the rebels, in noinstance, however, violating neutral rights,
or trespassing within the waters of a neutral power.
	Among the vessels that have been reported as having arms, muni-
tions of war, etc., and as having sailed from Europe with the intention
of violating the blockade or throwing their cargoes into the Southern
States by transshipment~, are the steamers Julia Usher, Bahama, Melita,
Syiph, Stanley, Leopard, Columbia, ]Jilierrimac, Memphis, Anglia, Scotia,
Herald, Sophia, .Phebe Ann, Tubal Cain, Southwick, Economist, Minho,
Lodona, and Adela.
	The steamer P. P. Cuyier, Commander Francis Winslow, will touch
at Nassau on the way to Key West, under instructions of a similar
import to the foregoing.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
	Commander G. GANSEVOORT, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. Sloop Adirondack, New York.


Report of Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tus-
carora, announcing arrival of his ship at Southampton, England.

U.	S. S. TUSCARORA,
Southampton, July 12, 18G2.
	SIR: I had the honor to report to you, on the 9th, from London,
briefly announcing my presence, with the ship under my command, in
the waters of England

Page 401

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	401

	Mr. Adams has informed the honorable Secretary of State of the
object of my visit, and it appears hardly necessary for me to add any
further explanations. You will perceive that an imperative sense of
duty has called me here; this being one of those occasions which called
for the exercise of that discretionary authority conveyed to me by your
general instructions of December 6. Your order of May 21 reached me
at Cadiz, where I was making repairs. The Kearsarge being in Gibral-
tar Bay, watching the Sumter, I hastened to this place in compliance
with the request of Mr. Adams.
	Permit me, sir, to call your attention to the necessity for another
steamer on the European coast. During the last three months I could
on more than one occasion have intercepted steamers in the rebel
service, which had sailed from Liverpool, and of whose departure I had
timely notice by telegraph; but the prolonged absence of the flearsarge
rendered it impossible for me to leave the Bay of Gibraltar. Again, it
will hardly be possible for this ship to perform with efficiency the
same sort of service as has devolved upon her for the past six months,
of steady and incessant fires. Our boilers are beginning to exhibit the
wear and will more frequently require overhauling and repair. I merely
offer these suggestions to show you that a steamer without relief may
become so crippled as to be inefficient.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
	T. AUGS. CRAVEN,
	Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Flag- Officer Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific Squadron,
regarding matters at Panama, New Granada.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
San Francisco, July 19, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you that the French corvette La
Bayonnaise has arrived from San Blas, and from all the information
I can obtain the French are not blockading, at present, any of the
ports on the Pacific side of Mexico.
	In a letter from Commander Lauman, dated on board the U. S. S.
Saranac, Panama, July 3, I am informed that on June 30 intelligence
was given to the foreign consuls leading them to believe that an attack
on the city of Panama would be made by a number of persons, princi-
pally blacks, for the purpose of plunder. Every preparation was made
for the lauding of a sufficient force for the protection of the lives of
American citizens and the property of the railroad company, but on
the following day the consuls were notified by the prefect that the
danger had passed away.
	As it is a matter of considerable importance to the inhabitants of
Panama to keep as many men of war as possible moored in their harbor,
I am inclined to believe that these alarms are frequently gotten up for
the purpose of detaining them when it is understood that they are
about to sail. Such was the case on Various occasions when the Lan-
caster was supposed to be about to leave, and on this occasion the
British ship of war Termagant was detained a few days.
123A2

Page 402

402	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	1 have remained a short time at this anchorage to give the crew an
opportunity to visit the shore, the first they have had since leaving
the United States, and to fill up our complement of men, which has
never been full, and which has been still further reduced by desertion.
I regret to say we have had but little success.
	I shall leave here on the 22d instant, aud shall proceed dowu the
coast towards Panama, touching on the way at all the principal Mexican
ports.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully,
GRAS. H. BELL,
Flag- Officer, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Captain (Jansevoort, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Adiron-
dack, relative to capture of schooner Emma.

U. S. S. ADIRONDACK,
At Sea, Lat. 270 19 if., Long. 750, 50 W., July 23, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that I have this day boarded, after
two hours chase, the schooner Emma, of Nassau. She was built in
Salem, Md., but has a British colonial register. After a careful exam-
ination of her papers and cargo I have decided to send her to the port
of Philadelphia as a prize, and have detailed Acting Masters Mate
William Knapp, jr., to proceed with her, with a crew of six men. Her
cargo consists of salt, soda ash, shoes, stationery, oil, and flannel arti-
cles of great need iu the so-called Confederate States. Her captain
and part of her crew appear, from the papers found on board, to be the
persons who ran the blockade from Wilmington, N. C., on or about May
9, 1862, in the pilot boat Ann B. Berry. I found on board a letter dated
Confederate States of America, War Department, Richmond, April 28,
1862, signed Geo. W. Randolph, Secretary of War, authorizing a clear-
ance of the Ann B. Berry for the West Indies, with the understanding
that she shall bring back such stores as the Ordnance Bureau may
direct. The captain of the Ann B. Berry is the captain of the prize.
The clearance of the prize is from Nassau, New Providence, for Balti.
more, but the facts and circumstances convince me that she was bound
to some port in the so-called Confederate States.
	Concerning this ship and her performance since she left New York,
I have to report that the weather has been such as to try her well.
We have had almost continued strong head winds, and for one or two
days quite heavy southwest gales. The engines have behaved well, as
has also the ship. In the gale the most important parts of our iron
work aloft was carried away, and I shall have to refit her yards at
Nassau. Her speed is fair. She was going 12 knots to-day without
pressing her engines, while in chase, under topsails, foresail, and top-
mast studding sail, in a moderate breeze.
	The rough weather we have had has so delayed us that I shall have
to coal in Nassau. I shall be glad to have Mr. Knapp, the prize mas-
ter, return as early as possible to this vessel, and respectfully request
that orders to him to that end be issued by the IDepartment; also, if
possible, that the men who go with him, or others in their stead, be
returned

Page 403

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	403

	I transmit herewith a list of persons entitled to share in the prize,
and am,
Very respectftully, your obedient servant,
GUERT GANSEVOORT,
Commander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commander llliarin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship St.
Louis, announcing arrival at island of llfadeira.

U.	S. SHIP ST. LOUIS,
Island of 111 adeira, July 25, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my visit to this island, last from
Fayal (Azores). I have nothing of importance to communicate to the
Department, save that the appearance of our flag everywhere seems
to give much satisfaction, particularly to good American citizens, and
even in donbtfril cases of allegiance it brings to memory the flag of the
United States and the strength and power of our country, altogether
having a good effect.
	The authorities of the ports that I have visited have been highly
courteons and attentive.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
M.	C. MARIN,
Commander, U. S. Ship St. Louis.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commander Gansevoort, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Adirondack, relative to firing at steamer Herald.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP OF WAR ADIRONDACK,
Harbor of Nassau, July 28, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of this ship at this port.
We left New York on the 17th, and after an eight days passage arrived
here on the 25th.
	On the 23d instant I captured at sea, about 120 miles north of the
Hole in the Wall, the schooner Emma, of Nassau, and being convinced
that she was bound to some Southern port, sent her as a prize to Phila-
delphia in charge of Acting Masters Mate William Knapp, Jr., with a
crew of six men.
	On the morning of the 25th, when in sight of this place, but beyond
the territorial jurisdiction of this part of the British Empire, I discov-
ered shortly after daylight a steamer standing in for Nassan. I gave
chase, and when near enough to her to enable her people to make out
our character she changed her course more toward shore and increased
her spee(l. I endeavored to bring her to by the usual means, but as
these only accelerated her speed I fired at her. Several of our shell, I
have been since informed, struck her, and, as her speed was greatly
snperior to ours, she escaped into Nassau. As soon as we came near
enongh a boat from her British Majestys steamer Greyhound came of

Page 404

404	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

to us with a letter from Commander II. D. ilickley, her commander,
and the senior British naval officer present, protesting in the name of
her Majestys Government against my course. I replied at once, and
the letter from Commander Buckley, as well as my reply and the state-
ment of various conversations between us in relation thereto, I shall
have the honor of forwarding to you from Hampton Roads when we
arrive there. The letter of Captain Hickley informed me that the steam-
ers name was the Herald (one of those npon the list contained in my
instructions), and from shore Ilearn that she had just come from Charles-
ton (having taken there a cargo of arms, etc.) with a cargo of cotton.
	The bad weather we experienced on our passage to this place so
delayed and damaged us that I found it necessary to take in coal and
other supplies and to make repairs. Upon arrival I made application
to the authorities for permission to do so, which, after imposing various
conditions said to be in accordance with the latest English proclama-
tion of neutrality, Governor Bayley granted.
	As to the condition of affairs here in reference to our present strug-
gle, I have to report that nearly the whole population is in open and
notorious sympathy with the rebels. Steamers in large numbers have
arrived here from England loaded with arms and munitions of war,
which are transshipped in some cases into vessels bound to Southern
ports; in others the goods are landed; in others they remain in the ves-
sels in which they came from England. All the warehouses in town,
and many private houses even, are stored with these goods. In the
face of open day, in the presence of the authorities of every degree,
and necessarily by their knowledge and consent, guns and munitions
of war, marked C. S. A., and known by everybody to be the property
of the rebel authorities, are hauled through the streets and put on
board steamers notoriously bound to run the blockade. No conceal-
ment of these intentions is made or attempted. Everybody, public or
private, is well acquainted with them. All the harbor regulations have
been nullified for the benefit of the rebels, while for any of our vessels
who come here they are strictly enforced. ~eutralityis the word for
us; I have no authority, the reply to every application or remon-
strance on the part of our consul against these things.
	As to the Oreto, she is at present in charge of a prize crew from the
Greyhound. I have been unable as yet to learn the time when she was
seized, but have been informed that she had several times been seized
by the naval authorities and released before her present final seizure.
Proceedings are now pending in the admiralty court for her condem-
nation for a violation of the foreign-enlistment act. What the result
of those proceedings will be is a matter concerning which opinions are
divided.
	Semnies and his officers were, before her seizure, openly and notori-
ously engaged in fitting her out as a Confederate cruiser, and almost
every vessel arriving from Charleston brought out men to form her
crew. When she was seized these were turned loose in the streets,
where they remain ready for an opportunity to go again on board. The
vessel herself looks trim and man-of-war like. She has sixteen ports
in which guns could be mounted; these ports are small, though, and
no heavy guns could be used in them. She is fitted, I am informed, in
all respects as a vessel of war and the purpose for which she is intended
is known to every one, high and low. Since her seizure, Seinmes and
officers have gone, I am informed, to Charleston, and by the arrival on
Saturday of a vessel (the steamer Kate) from there, we learn that they
successfully ran the blockade

Page 405

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	405

	I have endeavored to condense this report as much as possible. I
defer a more lengthy one nutil arrival at Hampton Roads, for reasons
which I will communicate. I defer also making any suggestions to the
Department for the same reasons. At that time I shall have the pleas-
ure of transmitting all the details with which I have become acquainted,
together with the correspondence already referred to. I shall leave
here on Wednesday, at the latest, and meanwhile am,
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GUERT GANSEVOORT,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Order and instructions from Secretary of the Navy to Commander Craven,
U.	S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, August 1, 1862.
	Sin:	The Department approves of your course in going to England
with the Tuscarora. You will remain there so long as Mr. Adams
desires, acting under his advice in all matters likely to give umbrage
to the English Government.
lam, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.]
	Commander T. A. CRAVEN,
Commanding U. S. Stoop Tuscarora, Southampton, England.

Order from Secretary of the Navy to Commander Pickering, U. S. Navy,

commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, August 1, 1862.

	Sin:	Remain with the Kearsarge near Gibraltar, watching the Sumter,
until further orders.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
	Commander CHAS. W. PICKERING,	[Secretary of the Navy.]
Commanding U. S. Sloop Kearsarge, near Gibraltar.


Instructions of Rear-Admiral Sir Lewis T. Jones, 1?. N., commanding
H.	IlL S. Hastings, to Captain Seymour, R. N., relative to the limit of
time allowed the U. S. S. Tuscarora in the port of Queenstown.
ADMIRALS OFFICE,
Quecustown, August 1, 1862.
	SIR:	I am directed by Rear-Admiral Sir Lewis [T.] Jones to inform
you that by the regulations of the port the Tuscarora niust leave this
anchorage at the expiration of twenty-four hours after her arrival.
I have the honor to be, sir, yonr obedient servant,
R.	CURGENVEN,
Secretary.
Captain SEYMOUR,
Queenstown

Page 406

406	OPERATIONS OP THE CRU1SERSIJNION.

Report of Commander Gcunsevoort, U. ~. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Adirondack, of firing on steamer Herald, enclosing correspondence with
British authorities relative thereto and to procuring coal; also, a list
of suspicious vessels.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP ADIRONDACK,
Iliampton Roads, August 4, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you of the arrival of this ship at
this place, and to submit the following report of my doings since she
sailed from New York, on the 17th ultimo:
	On the 23d I captured a small schooner (the Emma, of Nassau) about
120 miles north of the Hole in the Wall, and sent her to Philadelphia,
in charge of Acting Masters Mate William Knapp, jr., with a crew of
six men. On the morning of the 25th of July, when about 8 or 10
miles from Nassau light-house, shortly after daylight, I discovered a
steamer standing toward that place; upon steaming toward her she
changed course and increased her speed, with evident desire of
avoiding being boarded. I unavailingly tried the usual means of
bringing her to, and then fired at her. Though several of our shells
exploded near her, and fragmeiits from them struck her sides and
decks, she refused to stop; and being much faster than the Adirondack,
she escaped into Nassau. I was careful to cease chasing and firing at
her so soon as it seemed a matter of doubt whether or not she was
within British waters, as I was not willing to furnish the English
Government a pretext for making trouble for us.
	About two hoars afterwards (we having meanwhile greatly neared
the port) a boat caine alongside from II. B. M. S. Greyhound, bringing
aletter from Commander H. D. Hickley, of the British Navy, addressed,
To the officer in command of the Federal vessel, and protesting in
the name of her Majestys Government against my course, etc. The
letter informed me of the name of the steamerthe Herald. She is one
of those enumerated mu your sealed instructions, dated July 11, 1862,
and subsequently, upon visiting the shore, I learned that the iferald
was, at the time I chased and fired at her, on her return from Charles-
ton (whither she had carried a large cargo of ammunition, arms, etc.)
with a cargo of cotton, and was at the time under command of the
notorious rebel Coxetter, formerly captain of the rebel privateer Jejj
Davis. The Greyhound subsequently came out, and, steaming round us,
hailed, and returned to port.
	Shortly after anchoring I replied to Commander ilickleys protest.
I have the honor to enclose copies of these documents.
	Upon a visit which he made to me next day Commander Hickley
made the most ample apologies for having addressed me as the officer
in command of the Federal vessel, and was very anxiouspertina-
ciously soto withdraw his first letter and submit another properly
addressed, but I declined to permit it, though I promised to inform
my Government of his apology. Commander ilickley subsequently
addressed me two letters upon the subject of the Herald, copies of
which are enclosed; I enclose also a copy of my reply to his last letter.
They explain themselves.
	The passage from New York of eight days having consumed nearly
all our coal I found npon arrival at Nassau that it was necessary to
procure more, and.also to repair some damages caused by the rough
weather I had experienced; accordingly, the next morning after my
arrival I waited (in conirpany with our consul, Mr. Whiting) upon the
colonial governor, and requested permission to take in my supplies an

Page 407

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	407

make my repairs. He informed me that he had heard through Corn.
mander Hickley of my desires, and that he had that morning sent me
a letter containing the terms upon which I might be permitted to take
coal and make repairs. As I had not received this letter, he verbally
communicated the conditions, to which I acceded. At his request I
addressed him a written statement of my needs and acceptance of the
terms his letter proposed. I have the honor to enclose copies of his
letter and of a proclamation it contained, together with my letter to him.
	Concerning the condition of things at Nassau, 1 have to report that
nearly all the feeling of the place with regard to our present national
troubles is in sympathy with the rebels. As we passed through the
harbor Dixie was played for our benefit when we walked the streets
we heard the term Yankee uttered with true Southern tone, and
occasionally a more impudent l)lackguard would, as h&#38; passed, hurrah
in our ears for Jeff. Davis. The warehouses of the town, and very
many private houses, are stored to the full with arms and munitions of
war, notoriously intended for the South. Vessels arrive constantly
from England loaded with these stores; in some cases they are trans-
shipped into vessels engaged in rtlnning the blockade~ in others they
remain in the vessels that brought them. The practice of the blockade
breakers is to paint these vessels of a bluish-white color, which is about
the color of the sky at early dawn. When a vessel leaves to run the
blockade everybody in or out of authority knows it. The officials all
connive at the practice. In the daytime, at all hours, without pre-
tense of concealment, boxes of arms and munitions of war, cannon and
ammunition, marked in large capitals C. S. A., are dragged through
the streets to be shipped on board vessels known by everybody to be
going to Charleston and other Southern ports.
	As an evidence of this sympathy and connivance on the part of her
Majestys officers, I have to state that though my reply to Commander
Hickleys first letter was not sent to him until late in the afternoon of
the 25th, the substance of it appeared the next morning in a Nassau
newspaper, a copy of which I herewith forward.
	As to the names and descriptions of the vessels that have been
engaged during the past year in this business, I respectfully refer the
Department to the letters of our coiisnl, Mr. Whiting, to the Secretary
of State, nearly all of which, he informs me, have been by the State
Department referred to you. And while upon this subject I desire to
say of Mr. Whiting that I believe him to be a worthy representative
of the country. He was exceedingly courteous and obliging to us, and
I think he has at all times faithfully performed his duties there, though
the position is an exceedingly trying one. He showed me the most
of his dispatches as to Confederate-British doings in Nassau (luring
the past year, and so far as I was able to verify them they were per-
fectly correct. I have every reason to believe that they present a true
account of affairs there.
	I found in Nassau quite a number of English steamers laden with
arms and engaged in running the blockade. A descriptive list of
them is enclosed.
	Concerning the Oreto, I have to report that the purpose for which
she was intended is notorious to everyone. She is a neat, trim craft,
draws about 13 feet of water, has three masts, which rake consider-
ably, with lower, topsail, and topgallant yards upon fore and main;
one smokestack, which also rakes considerably. She has sixteen ports
in which guns can be carried, but the ports are not large enough for
heavy guns. She might carry a pivot forward and one aft

Page 408

408	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I found her in charge of a prize crew from the Greyhound, and pro-
ceedings have been instituted in the admiralty court of the Bahamas
for her condemnation for a violation of the foreign enlistment act of
Great Britain, referred to in her Majestys proclamation of May 13,
1861. The case was to have been heard on the day I left. What the
decision will be is a subject upon which opinions are divided. Mr.
Whiting thinks she will be condemned. 1 requested Commander
Hickleys permission to go on board the Oreto, but was refused, and I
can only give the impressions I got of her from pulling round her in
my gig. Semmes and his officers were, up to the time of her seizure,
actively engaged in fitting her for warlike purposes; but since that
date Semmes has sailed for England in a steamer called the Bahama,
while his officers (with the exception of one, who goes by the name of
Sterling, whom I take, from the description I have had of him, to be J.
M. Stribling, formerly lieutenant in our Navy) have, I am informed,
gone to Charleston. After the arrival of Semnmes every steamer that
came out from Charleston brought men to form a crew for the Oreto,
who went on board of her as soon as they arrived. At the time of her
seizure they were turned adrift on the island.
	I have endeavored to give the Department a full statement of the
condition of things at Nassau as they appear to me. My conclusion is
that the interests of the Government require that two or more vessels
should be constantly cruising in the channels between the Great and
Little B~~hama Banks; these vessels should be well armed and fleet,
and kept constantly shifting their positions. The inefficiency of our
blockade of Charleston is a matter of universal contempt at Nassau;
hardly one vessel in a dozen that leaves to run the blockade is captured.
	One steamer has, I was informed, made thirty-three trips to and from
that port since the blockade was established; her name is the Kate, and
she is a side-wheel vessel, similar to the Magnolia.
	By the terms of the proclamation enclosed to me by the governor,
which I enclose, this ship can not again go to Nassau until three months
after her departure. While I should be glad to serve the country in the
manner I have suggested, I am of the opinion that the Adirondack car-
ries too little coal, and is not fleet enough for that duty.
	I stated in my letter by the mail steamer from Nassau that I deferred
sending the enclosed documents until now for a reason; the reason was
that I was informed by the consul that his despatches had on one occa-
sion been torn up and returned to him; the possibility of a similar fate
made me cautious to avoid it.
	Trusting that my course may meet with the approbation of the De-
partment,
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
GUERT GANSEVOORT,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Nary, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosures.]

GREYHOUND, Nassau, July 25, 1862
	SIR: Having observed the Federal vessel of war under your command
firing both shot and shell at a British vessel within 5~ miles of the
light-house of Nassari, and especially bearing iii mind the flict that this
vessel, the Herald, was coming from sea, and that your vessel increased
her distance from the shore of Nassau in intercepting the Herald, an

Page 409

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	409

also that that vessel was struck two or three times with shot, I have to
protest in the name of her Majestys Government most strongly against
this act on your part as commander of a vessel of war of a nation with
whom Great Britain is at peace, and to acquaint you that I shall rel)-
resent at once to the naval commander in chief the course you have
pursued, for the information of her Majestys Government.
	I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
H.	D. HICKLEY,
Commander and Senior Naval Officer at Nassau.
	The OFFICEI~ IN COMMAND OF THE FEDERAL VESSEL.



U. S. Snip ADIRONDACK,
Harbor of Nassau, July 25, 1862.
	SIR: Your communication of this date addressed, To the officer in
command of the Federal vessel, has been handed to me on board this
ship by an officer from your vessel. I presume it is meant for me,
although I have the honor to command a vessel of war of the United
States.
	I take an early opportunity to reply, and I think the relation of the
facts of this mornings chase of the Herald, to which you refer, will con-
vince you that your protest in the name of her Majestys Government
was premature. By your own statement of the case the firing occurred
5~ miles from shore. The distance was considerably greater, but con-
ceding your estimate to be correct, I had the plain right, under inter-
national law, sanctioned and approved by the highest legal authority
of your own nation, to bring to a vessel of any nation when that dis-
tance from the shore. Yattel says, Book i, ch. xXJH,  289, p. 129:
	The whole space of the sea within cannon shot of the coast is considered as
making part of the territory.
	So Wheaton, part ii, ch. iv, p. 248, says:
	We have already seen that by the generally approved usage of nations, which
forms the basis of international law, the maritime territory of every state extends
to the distance of a marine league, or as far as a cannon shot will reach from the
shore, along all the coasts of the state.

	Concerning the right of a vessel of a belligerent power to overhaul
vessels of a neutral power in search of contraband ot war, there can, I
presume, be no reason for doubt. England has always exercised it,
and the authorities I have already referred to clearly state it. That
the United States are belligerent now and that England is neutral, her
Majestys proclamation avers. The manner in which this right I have
referred to is to be exercised is according to the universal custom: first,
to fire a blank charge and hoist colors; if no attention is paid by the
chase, a shot is fired across her bows; if she still refuses to heave to, then
a shot or shots at her. In the case of the Herald this course was strictly
pursued. She was discovered from this ship at or shortly after day-
light. Upon nearing us she changed her course for cne which would
carry her farther inshore.
	We steamed toward her, and when we were near enough to her to
enable her to discover our character as a United States vessel of war,
she suddenly and unnecessarily increased her speed. We fired a gun
which, though shotted, -was fired away from her intentionally, and
hoisted the U. S. flag. She showed British colors and increased her
speed; we then fired a shot across her bows; she paid no attention, bu

Page 410

410	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

kept on at full and if possible increased speed. I then fired at her and
continued to do so, at the same time chasing her until, being anxious
lest I might trespass upon her Majestys territorial jurisdictiona tres-
pass I did not desire to commitI ceased. You will perceive that in
all this 1 have acted in stricti jure. I am, as I desfred to be, within
the letter as well as the spirit of the law of nations.
	It has not been my purpose, and is not, neither do I desire nor have
I desired, to do anything to disturb the friendly relations between the
Government of the United States and that of her Majesty. On the
contrary, my desire is, and my instructions are, to do all in my power
to avoid any act which may tend to disturb those friendly relations.
	Be pleased, when you represent to your commander in chief the
course I have pursued for the information of her Majesty~s Govern-
ment, to communicate to him also this my reply.
I am, sir, with great respect, your obedient servant,
GUERT GANSEVOORT,
	Commander, U. S Navy, Commanding U. S. Ship Adirondack.
Commander II. D. HICKLEY, R. N.,
Commanding H. B. ill. Ship Greyhound.


[II. M. S.] GREYHOUND,
Nassau, July 25, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter in
reply to my own of to-days date, and to acquaint you that the answer
contained therein shall be forwarded with my own report to the naval
commander in chief for the information of her Majestys Government.
I have the honor to be, sir. your obedient servant,
II.	D. HICKLEY,
Commander and Senior Naval Officer at Nassau.
	Captain GUERT GANSEVOORT,
U.	S. Vessel of War Adirondack.


BAHAMAS COLONIAL SECRETARYS OFFICE,
Nassau, July 26, 1862.
	SIR: Having heard from Capt. ilickley, commanding II. M. S. Grey-
hound, that you are anchored in the roadstead oft the harbor, and
intend coming within the harbor of Nassau, the governor desires me
to transmit for your information the enclosed copy of a proclamation,
issued by his Excellency on the 11th day of March last, founded on
instructions from her Majestys principal secretary of state for the col-
onies, under date of the 21st of January of the present year.
	From this you will l~erceive that Capt. ilickley inadvertently omitted
to apprise you that no armored vessel belonging either to the United
States or to the States calling themselves the Confederate States of
America, could anchor either in this harbor or roadstead without the
especial permission of the governor, except in stress of weather.
	His Excellency begs me to assure you that in making this communi-
cation to you he has no desire to exclude you from the hospitalities of
the harbor, and that he is quite prepared to consider this permission
as already accorded to you; but, at the same time, his Excellency
desires me to point out to you the obligation which, according to th

Page 411

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRLTISERSUNION.	411


terms of the proclamation, you are understood to assume by anchoring
either in the roadstead or the inner harbor.
	You bind yourself to leave this port whenever required by the gov-
ernor, and, further, not to leave it until the expiration of twenty-four
hours after the departure of any vessel belonging to the Confederate
States which may have been anchored here at the time of your arrival.
	In making this communication his Excellency desires me to reiterate
his assurance that he has no wish to exclude you from the hospitalities
of the port, but is only anxious that you should be aware of the obliga-
tions which you impliedly undertake by enterin
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient, humble servant,
C.	H. NESBITT,
Colonial Secretary.
Captain GANSEVOORT,
Commanding U. S. S. Adirondack, Nassau, New Providence.


U. S. SHIP ADIRONDACK,
harbor of Nassau, July 26, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your conimu-
nication of this date. In reply, I have to inform you that the purpose
of my coining into this port is to procure coal and other necessary sup-
plies, and to repair some damages done by the rough weather Ii expe-
rienced in my passage from New York.
	Your Excellency having already verbally accorded permission to do
so, upon certain terms contained in your letter and the copy of a
proclamation contained therein of the date of March 11, 1862, I have
to say that I accept the terms and shall leave the port at the earliest
possible moment after the above-named purposes have been accom-
plished, mean while using the greatest possible dispatch.
With high respect, I am, sir, your obedient servant,
GUERT GANSEVOORT,
	Commander, U. S. Navy, Commanding U. S. Ship Adirondack.
His Excellency CHARLES JOHN BAYLEY, Esq.,
Governor and Commander in Chief in and over the Bahama Islands,
Chancellor, Vice-Admiral and Ordinary, etc.


[II. M. S.] GREYHOUND,
Nassau, July 27, 1862.
	SIR:	With reference to your letter of July 25, and its fifth paragraph,
wherein it is stated:
The manner in which the right I have referred to is to be exercised is, according
to universal custom, first to fire a blank charge and hoist colors; if no attention be
paid by the chase, a shot is fired across her bows; if she still refuse to heave to,
then a shot or shots at her. In the case of the Herald this morning this course was
strictly pursued
I have the honor to call your attention to the fact that having made
very careful enquiry, I learn a shotted gun was fired first, which in
the sixth paragraph of your letter I observe is admitted, which,
though shotted, was fired away from her and far astern of her intention-
ally.
In the sixth paragraph is also stated that
She was discovered by ns at, or shortly after, daylight; upon nearing ns she
changed her course for one which would carry her farther in shore. We steamed
toward her, and when we were near enough to her to enable her to discover ou

Page 412

412	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION

character as a United States vessel of war, she suddenly and unnecessarily increased
her speed; we fired a gun which, though shotted, was fired away from her, and far
astern of her intentionally, and hoisted the United States flag; she showed British
colors.

	With regard to the last clause in this paragraph, viz, she showed
British colors, J am informed that the colors of the Herald were
hoisted some time previous to any shot being fired, whereas the colors
of [the] U. S. S. Adirondack were not hoisted until the discharge of
the first gun, which was shotted, when, at or about the same time the
United States flag was hoisted.
	Hoping that, after a most careful enquiry into all the circumstances
connected with the case of the British steamship Herald, J have erred
in no particular in the details in this letter,
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
H.	D. HICKLEY,

Commander of H. AL S. Greyhound, etc.
	[Commander GANSEVOORT,
Commanding U. S. S. Adirondack.]


U.	S. SHIP ADIRONDACK,
Off Nassau, July 28, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
yesterday (Sunday), the 27th instant, in reply to mine of the 25th
instant, written in reply to yours of the same date, protesting in the
name of her Majestys Government against my course in reference to
the Herald. In reference to firing the shotted gun, I am of opinion it
was substantially the same as a blank charge. I stated in my letter
the circumstances of the case fairly and openly, having no wish to dip-
lomatize in regard to them. The part of my letter you have quoted
states that the gun was shotted, but that it was intentionally fired far
astern of the Herald. It was intended to answer the purpose of a blank
charge, and there can be no pretense that it was not so understood by
those on board the Herald. My guns were all shotted, and it would
have taken too long to draw the shot, else it certainly would have been
done
	You say, I am informed that the colors of the Herald were hoisted
some time previous to any shot being fired; if this were so, I am unable
to see that it could in any ~Way be material. You are, however, misin-
formed. Having thus noticed the only two exceptions your reply takes
to my statement of the facts in relation to the chase of the Herald, I
take this opportunity again to say that in the course I pursued in regard
to that vessel, I acted, in my opinion, strictly in accordance with law,
right, and custom, and I feel myself the more justified by the informa-
tion I have received since arriving at this port, that the Herald, at the
time I fired at and chased her, was on her return from the United States
port of Charleston, S. C. (a port now being blockaded by the United
States), after having carried there a cargo of arms and other stores for
the benefit of those in arms against the United States; that in going
to and returning from Charleston, the Herald had twice violated that
blockade, and that she was, at the time she committed these violations,
and now is, under the command of one Captain Coxetter, a rebel citizen of
the United States, who lately commanded a so-called Confederate pri-
vateer. I make these statements upon the notoriety in Nassau of their
truth, and also upon the statements of the public newspapers of the
city; also upon statements and admissions made to me and two of m

Page 413

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	413

officers by some of the officers, crew, or passengers of the Herald; by
having been, by persons on board the Herald, pointed to the cotton she
was discharging into the English steamer alongside of which she lies,
as I passed through the port in my boat; and 1 call your attention to
the fact that the Herald was thus, at the time of my chase of her, in
violation of the neutrality declared and imposed by her Majesty the
Queen of Great Britain in her proclamation of May, 1861, and by the
terms of that proclamation debarred from her Majestys favor and pro-
tection.
\Tery respectfully. your obedient servant,
GUERT GM~SEVOORT,
	Commander, U. S. Navy, Commanding U. S. iS1hip Adirondack.
Captain II. D. hUXLEY,
	Commanding H. JILL S. Greyhound.

U. S. S. ADIRONDACK,
Hampton Roads, Va., August 4, 1862.
	SiR:	The following is a descriptive list of steam vessels now or
lately at Nassau, New Providence, which are actively engaged in the
violation of the blockade of the ports of those States now in insurrec-
tion against the Government:
	1.	The Melita, an iron propeller, with 3 masts.
	2.	The Stanley, an iron propeller, with 3 masts.
	3.	The Leopard, a side-wheel steamer, 2 masts, with great rake, and a
raking smokestack, straight stern, and cutwater, and no head booms;
a very fast vessel and the one purchased for Confederates by
fuse. An iron vessel. She left for Charleston July 29, at night.
	4.	The Pacific, side-wheel, 2 pipes fore and aft, 3 masts; a large, fast
vessel.
	5.	The Oreto, propeller, 3 masts, with square sails on fore and main,
1 smokestack, whicb, with masts, rakes considerably; built strong and
well, with cutwater and Sardinian coat of arms surmounting it. Head
booms. She is pierced for guns, and looks to be very fast.
	6.	The Minho, propeller, 3 masts; has once run the blockade of
Charleston, and left for a second attempt July 29, at night; an iron
vessel.
	7.	The Kate, side-wheel, 2 masts and upper cabin, very light draft
and not fast, with walking beam engine and no head booms or yards.
	8.	The Columbia, iron propeller, 2 masts and 1 smokestack; a beau-
tiftd and fast vessel, now loaded and painted, ready for her first
attempt to run the blockade to Charleston.
	9.	The Minna, iron propeller, schooner-rigged, pipe painted red
white red, loading from Herald with cotton, for England.
	10.	The Herald, a low, fast, side-wheel steamer, 1 smokestack,
stump bowsprit, and 1 mast; just arrived; from Charleston July 25, 1862.
	11.	The Scotia, side-~vheel, very low in the water, with 2 pipes.
Loaded, ready for Charleston. An iron vessel.
	12.	The Lodona, iron propeller, arrived July 25 from England, with
arms, etc. One l)ipe well aft; bark rigged.
	The Nashville left for Charleston June 27, 1862; the Lloyds on July
3,1862; the Hero on July 19, [1862]; the Tubal Cain on July 20, [1862].
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	GUERT GANSEVOORT,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES	Commander.
Secretary of the Navy

Page 414

414	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Commander T. A. Graven, U. ~. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Tuscarora, giving an account of the escape of the Alabama from
Liverpool.
U.	S. S. TuscAnonA,
Queenstown, August 4, 1862.
	Silt: I have the honor to inform you that a new rebel steamer has
escaped from Liverpool, where she has been built and equipped, openly
and without secrecy, under the inspection of J. I). Bulloch, late a lieu-
tenant in the U. S. Navy.
	My communication to you of July 8 will have informed you of my
being in England. by the advice and request of the U. S. minister,
who hoped, as I did, that I might be able to prevent the departure of
the pirate steamer. On reaching Southampton I made a plea of neces-
sary repairs, remained there and made them, awaiting further intelli-
gence. On the afternoon of the 29th ultimo, at 4:30 oclock, I received
from Mr. Adams a dispatch, The vessel is steaming out of the Mersey.
I went to sea without delay and ran into the St. Georges Channel,
touched at Quecustown to make further inquiries and to receive from
Mr. Adams intelligence; his dispatch reported the vessel still off
Point Lynus. I went to the place indicated, and there learned from
the pilots that the pirate left the coast on the evening of the same day
lie sailed from Liverpool, having off Point Lynus received from a steani
tug which had followed him out supplies (unknown). In the St.
Georges Channel I had during the last three days passed a number of
American vessels, both inward and outward bound; I therefore infer
that the pirate went to sea by the North Channel as
seen nor heard of here.	,	he has not been
	The Liverpool pilot reported that the steamer had gone to Nassau
and steamed about 12 knots. I enclose a description of her:

Description of the rebel steamer recently built in Liverpool, and which sailed frone tbcre
29th July, 8upposed to be commanded by James D. Bitlioch.

	Screw steamer of 1,050 tons, built of wood~ is about 200 feet long; has 2 engines;
propeller lifts up; bark rigged, with short bowsprit; smoke pipe is just forward of
mainmast; steam pipe of copper, forward of smoke pipe, and also 2 ventilators
forward of smoke pipe; billet-head gilt; has on it a red shield with a gilt anchor on
it.	Stern round, with blank stern windows, gilt carving, and a motto, Ai dtoiet
Diess taidera.
	Mizzenmast well aft, with a great rake; carries 2 boats on each side abaft the
mainmast, also has a stern boat. Has a bridge across the deck tbrward of smoke
pipe. Decks are flush and had tracks laid for 3 pivot guns.

	So long as the order in council prohibits our ships of war lying in
British ports, just so long will it be out of the power of our cruisers to
prevent these piratical vessels being fitted out and getting to sea. I
was notified to leave the port of Southampton, but insisted on making
repairs that I might be within easy communication of the U. S. minis-
ter. On arriving at Queenstown I was warned again, and could make
no plea of repairs, even if I had desired to remain. Not being per-
mitted to coal but once in three months, I can not cruise, and feel
powerless.
	Mr. Adams wished me to follow the vessel across the Atlantic~
your instructions to me only permit such chase under the probability
of capture, and as this ship only carries twelve days coal (hill steam-
ing), I could not follow with any possibility of overtaking the pirate,
who had at least tlfirty days coal on board. He could go across, while
I would have to stop for coal at Fayal.
	It is my intention to cruise in this channel a week longer, believin

Page 415

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	415

that my presence will have a good effect. I will go to the coast of
France for coal, and then to Gibraltar Bay, unless circumstances of an
urgent nature require my continuing in this vicinity.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T.	AUGS. CRAVEN,

Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Letter from the U. S. minister to England to Commander Craven, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, recommending him to follow
instructions from the Department without reference to him.

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES,
London, August 6, 1862.
	SIR: I will forward your letter to the Secretary of the Navy. Having
in my hands sufficient evidence to justify the step, 1 was willing to
assume the responsibility of advising you to follow the boat No. 290
and take her wherever you could find her. But I can nQt do the same
with other vessels of which I have knowledge only from general report.
I therefore think it best that you should resume your duties under the
general instructions you have from the Department without further
reference to me.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
CHARLES FRANCIS ADAi~1S.
	Captain T. AUG. CRAVEN, U. S. Navy,
U. S. S. Tuscarora, Dublin.


Letter from T. H. Dudley, U. S. consul at Liverpool, to Commander
Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, giving informa-
tion in regard to shipment of crew for C. S. gunboat [Alabama?].

U.	S. CONSULATE,
Tower Building, South Water street,
Liverpool, August 11, 1862, 5p. m.
	DEAR SIR: They are shipping 50 additional men for the gnnboat,
and are to take them out on a tug to-morrow night. I think ishe is in
some creek or bay on the north coast of Ireland. If possible, will find
out where she is and will telegraph you to-morrow morning. I under-
stand the tug is to leave here at midnight to-morrow night.
Yonrs, etc.,
THOMAS II. DUDLEY.
	Captain CRAVEN.


Report of Commander Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. B. B.
Cuyler, giving information regarding steamer Oreto.
U.	S. S. H. H. CUYLER,
Key West, August 12, 1862.
	SIR: Agreeably with the instructions of the Department, the foX-
lowing report of the Cuylers recent visit to Nassau (under the orders
of July 4) is respectfully submitted

Page 416

416	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	Learning from the pilot, on approaching the anchorage Friday
morning, the 8th, that the Oreto had left the inner harbor and was
then in motion testing her engines in the outer roads previous to
leaving Nassau, 1 decided not to anchor nntil after communicating
with our consul, for whom a suitable boat with an officer was promptly
dispatched.
	Mr. Whiting soon after arrived on board, informing me that the case
of the Oreto had recently been decided by the admiralty court, and
the vessel released on the ground of the insufficiency and conflicting
character of the testimony, no armament or munitions of war being
found on board; also that Semmes and most of his associates had left
Nassau in the steamer Bahama for Bermuda or England, apparently
abandoning the plan of using the Oreto as a privateer; but from such
statements as reached him confidentially, Mr. Whiting was of opinion
the steamer would attempt to run the blockade, probably at Charleston,
with snch arms and munitions as could be secretly put on board.
	After the deliberate and conclusive action of the court in this case,
further protest (nusustained b~y positive evidence) would not probably
be effective of any good result.
	The Oreto might proceed to sea at any moment, and as the simultane-
ous departure of this vessel from one of her British Majestys harbors, in
evident pursuit of a British steamer, would certainly be regarded as an
offensive act by the authorities, after mature consultation with Mr.
Whiting, it was deemed most expedient, under the circumstances, that
the Cuyler should not come to anchor, but ap~)arently continue on her
course toward Key West, proceeding to cruise in the vicinity of
Abaco, with the hope of intercepting the Oreto on her route and mak-
ing a thorough examination for contraband of war, when out of neutral
jurisdiction.
	In pursuance of this plan, we left Nassau about 5 p. m. During the
two following days several vessels were visited and examined in the
vicinity of Abaco, from one of which information was obtained that the
Oreto had again been seized by II. B. M. S. Petrel.
	In accordance with instructions, the Cuyler then proceeded to Key
West, where I have this day reported to Flag-Officer Larduer.
I am, with much respect, your most obedient servant,
	FRANCIS WINSLOW,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Order from the Secretary of the Navy to Captain Gansevoort, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. S. Adirondack, to proceed to Nassau and
direct cruisers there to watch for steamer 290 (Alabama).

NAVY DEPARTMENT, August 13, 1862.

	SIR: It has been frequently reported and generally believed that a
propeller designed for war purposes was in the course of construction
at or near Liverpool by Laird &#38; Co. for the rebel service. The vessel
has been completed and equipped, and it is understood has sailed from
England.
	An application was made by our minister to the Government of Great
Britain for the detention of the vessel alluded to. The proof pre-
sented was pretty conclusive that the steamer had been built for th

Page 417

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	417

rebel Government and is designed for privateering purposes or to prey
npon our commerce. Measures were about being taken to arrest her
departure when she escaped. Her destination is probably Nassan.
	You will proceed with the Adirondack to the vicinity of iNassan and
communicate to onr cruisers in that quarter the above information, and
direct them to be on the alert to intercept and capture the rebel steamer.
They must not, however, violate neutral rights by chasing, firing at, or
conducting any hostile demonstration against her within a full marine
league of neutral territory.
	The Laird gunboat, or No. 290, as she is called, is about 1,000 tons
burden and is represent ed to be a substantial and well-fitted vessel.
Rear-Admiral Goldsborough can furnish you with other information
respecting her.
	After communicating with our vessels in the vicinity of Nassau, pro-
ceed to Port Royal, and report to Rear-Admiral IDn Pont.
I am, respectfully, etc., your obedient servant,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Captain GUERT GANSEvOoRT,	[Secretary of the Navy.J
Commanding U. S. S. Adirondack, Hampton Roads, Va.


Order from the Secretary of the Navy to Captain Gansevoort, U. S. Navy
commanding U. S. S. Adirondack, giving permission to coal at Port
Royal, and mentioning that the gunboat 290 (Alabama) had sailed
from Liverpool.
NAvy DEPARTMENT, August 13, 1862.
	SIR: Since the instructions to you written this morning, it has
occurred to the Department that your supply of coal may not last on
the voyage. If you are of this opinion, you can touch at Port Royal,
on the way to Nassau, to replenish your supply, and thence proceed in
execution of your orders, unless Rear-Admiral Dii Pont should deem
it advisable to send some other steamer in place of the Adirondack.
	The gunboat 290 sailed froni Liverpool on the 29th ultimo. Please
inform the Department, if it comes to your knowledge whilst at Nassau,
that anthracite coal still arrives there from ports in the United States.
1 am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
	GIDEON WELLES
	Captain GUERT GANSEVOORT,	[Secretary of the Navy.]
Commanding U. S. S. Adirondack, Hampton Roads, Va.


Instructions of the Secretary of the Navy to flag-o~flcers commanding
squadrons and officers commanding cruisers, relative to the right of
search.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, August 18, 1862.
	SIR:	Some recent occurrences in the capture of vessels, and matters
pertaining to the blockade, render it necessary that there should be a
recapitulation of the instructions heretofore from time to time given,
and also of the restrictions and precautions to be observed by our
squadrons and cruisers.
	It is essential, in the remarkable contest now waging, that we should
~xercmse great forbearance, with great firmness, and manifest to the
	123A	2

Page 418

418	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

world that it is the intention of our Government, while asserting and
maintaining our own rights, to respect and scrupulously regard the
rights of others. it is in this view that the following instructions are
explicitly given:
	First. That you will exercise constant vigilance to prevent supplies
of arms, munitions, and contraband of war from being conveyed to
the insurgents, but that nuder no circumstances will you seize any
vessel within the waters of a friendly nation.
	Secondly. That, while diligently exercising the right of visitation on
all suspected vessels, you are in no case authorized to chase and fire
at a foreign vessel without showing your colors and giving her the cus-
tomary preliminary notice of a desire to speak and visit her.
	Thirdly. That when that visit is made, the vessel is not then to be
seized without a search carefully made, so far as to render it reasona-
ble to believe that she is engaged in carrying contraband of war for or
to the insurgents, and to their ports directly or indirectly by trans-
shipment, or otherwise violating the blockade; and that if, after visi-
tation and search, it shall appear to your satisfaction that she is in good
faith and without contraband, actually bound and passing from one
friendly or so-called neutral port to another, and not bound or proceed-
ing to or from a port in the possession of the insurgents, then she can
not be lawfully seized.
	Fourthly. That, to avoid diffienity and error in relation to papers
which strictly belong to the captured vessel, and mails that are carried,
or parcels under official seals, you will, in the words of the law, pre-
serve all the papers and writings found on board and transmit the
whole of the originals unmutilated to the judge of the district to which
such prize is ordered to proceed; but official seals, or locks, or fasten-
ings of foreign authorities, are in no case, nor on any pretext, to be
broken, or parcels covered by them read by any naval authorities,
bat all bags or other things covering such parcels, and duly seized
and fastened by foreign authorities, will be, in the discretion of
the United States officer to whom they may come, delivered to the con-
sul, commanding naval officer, or legation of the foreign government,
to be opened, upon the understanding that whatever is contraband or
important as evidence concerning the character of a captured vessel
will be remitted to the prize court, or to the Secretary of State at
Washington, or such sealed bag or parcels may be at once forwarded
to this Department, to the end that the proper authorities of the for-
eign government may receive the same without delay.
	You are specially informed that the fact that a suspicious vessel has
been indicated to you as cruising in any limit which has been prescribed
by this Department does not in any way authorize yoa to depart from
the practice of the rules of visitation, search, and capture prescribed
by the law of nations.
	Very respectfully,	GIDEON WELLES,
		 Secretary of the Navy.


Letter from the collector of customs at Belfast to Commander Graven,
U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, requiring immediate
departure from port, and forbidding the purchase of stores.

CUSTOM~IIOU5E, Belfast, August 19, 1862.
	SIR: The U. S. war steamer Tuscarora, under your command, having
entered the port of Ii3eIPst on the evening of the 15th instant, I hereb

Page 419

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	419

require the said ship to depart and to put to sea within twenty-four
hours front the time of her entrance into the port aforesaid.
	I liave also to acquaint you that the Tuscarora can not be allowed,
while in this port, to take in any stores or coal without special permis-
sion, she having already been coaled in a British port within three
months.
I am, sir, your most obedient servant~JOH~ SHELBY,

Collector of Customs.
COMMANDER OF THE U. S. WAR STEANER TUSCARORA.




Loss of the U. S. S. Adirondack, August 23, 1862.

Report of Rear-Admiral DuPont, U.S. Navy, commanding South Atlantic Blockading Squadron,
of the wreck of the U. S. S. Adirondack, and the piratical cruise of the steamer Oreto, enclos-
ing further reports on both subj ects.
FLAGSHIP WABASH,
Port Royal Harbor, S. C., August 28, 1862.
	SIR: It is with most painful feelings I have to inform the Department
of the total loss of the splendid steamer Adirondack, on the northeast
point of Little Bahama Bank, Man of War Cay. This intelligence was
received this morning by the Magnolia, Lieutenant Commanding J. II.
Spotts, who had fallen in with the Adirondack after she was wrecked.
She ran on shore about 3:30 in the morning of the 23d of August, and
Captain Gansevoort in a few hurried lines (a copy of which is enclosed)
expresses his fears that the ship is a total loss, though he hopes to
save most of her guns.
	In addition to this painful news I have information that the Oreto,
commanded by Maffltt, is now on a piratical cruise and aiming to inter-
cept the U. S. mail steamer Columbia, due at Havana on the 1st of Sep -
tember. By the latest advices she was at Diana Cay, off Cardenas, in
Cuban waters, but the captain-general of Cuba had sent orders that
she should leave that position. I also understand that the Laird gun-
boat, or 290, commanded by Bulloch, has also arrived at Nassau.
	From the report of Lieutenant Commanding Spotts, a copy of which
is enclosed, it is evident that Captain Gansevoort expresses some appre-
hensions that the rebel gunboats Oreto and 290, hearing of his position,
may take advantage of it and make them all prisoners.
	It is true that the Queens proclamation of neutrality has been con-
stantly violated in the colonies of the Bahamas, the last and most glar-
ing instance being the sham trial of the Oreto, which has been permitted
to sail from the port of Nassau with a schooner almost in tow carrying
her armament, and is now a pirate on the ocean. Yet I can scarcely
bring myself to believe that such a gross violation of it, as apprehended
by Captaiii Gansevoort, would be allowed by the British Government,
but that, on the contrary, her cruisers would render every assistance.
	In this crisis lain myself almost powerless. The Keystone State is, as I
have informed the Department, on an outside cruise, and at this moment,
when I am most anxious to send out for her and dispatch her to assist-
ance of the Adirondack, I have not a vessel for this purpose. It is of
the utmost importance that the Department should put at my command
a fast steamer of light draft, such as the Ben Dc Ford, to be used solely
as a dispatch vessel, by which I can at any moment communicate with
any station of my squadron

Page 420

420	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	The Canandaigua is here undergoing some repairs to her engine, but
I shall hurry her off fli the morning, and the Magnolia also as soon as
I can supply her with 50 tons of coal.
	The Department is aware that the Oreto is not at this moment within
the limits of my statioii, and I am quite sure Commodore Lardner will
look out for her, as the enclosed paper will show.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
~.	F. Pu PONT,
	Bear-Admiral, Commanding South Atlantic Blockading Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Nary, Washington.

[Enclosures.1

U.	S. S. ADIRONDACK, August 25, 1862.
	SIR: This vessel has unfortunately been wrecked on the northeast
part of the Little Bahama Bank, Man of War Cay. My people are
safe, and we have provisions for a few days. Please send a vessel to
our assistance. in great haste,
Yoursq very respectfully.
GUERT GANSEVOORT,
Captain.
	Rear-Admiral S. F. Pu PONT,
Commanding South Atlantic Blockading Squadron.

	In my judgment neither of the cruisers Captain Spotts has been in
search of is fit to cope with the Oreto.
	My complement is 216 persons. The ship is, I fear, a total loss; I
may perhaps save her guns, except the XI-inch ones. They are over-
board. We grounded at about 3:30 a. in., August 23.
GUERT GANSEVOORT,
Captain.

U.	S. S. MAGNOLIA,
Port Royal, August 28, 1862.
	SIR:	Enclosed you will find a copy of all instructions received from
three different persons. My principal orders, however, were verbal,
from Commodore Larduer, Consul-General [Shufeldt?], and Captaiu
Gansevoort, and much left to my discretion. I am sorry that the port
regniations are so strict that I can not communicate with you per-
sonally, and only have a few minutes to write you the most important
[news, to send] by the health officer.
	The consul-general at Havana received whilst I was in his office a
communication from the captain-general of Cuba, stating that the
Oreto, or Florida, commanded by Maffitt, had been ordered to leave
Diana Cay; where he will go is not known. The consul thinks he will
not go far, and is informed that it is her intention to intercept the
mail steamer Columbia, which is due at Havana on the 1st.
	I didnt find but one steamer of the Eastern Gulf Squadron to send
after the Oreto. After falling in with the Adirondack at Man of War
Cay, eastern point of Little Bahama, found that she had run on shore
at 4 oclock on Satirrday morning last, was badly bilged, and would be
a perfect wreck, except the guns and a few other articles. The water
was up to his berth deck, nearly all the officers and crew on a cay about
9 miles from the vessel, but there is a cay within a mile of the ship

Page 421

OPEIIATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	421

lie has buoyed and thrown overboard his two heavy guns. Would.
save all for the Government he could.
	Captain Gansevoort wished me to inform you that he saw the Oreto
at Nassau, and that the vessels which I was ordered to send in pursuit
of her were not a match for her, and would request that I would inform
yon of the fact; also that the information I gave him that the C. S. 290,
Commander Bulloch, had arrived at Nassau, and that it was possible,
knowing his helpless condition, that some fears were entertained
in regard to him. After consulting with Captain 0-ansevoort and receiv-
ing his order, I considered it my duty to proceed with all possible dis-
patch and communicate with you, for doing which I have expended a
large amount of coal, forcing her to extreme speed. I have only two
days coal on board. My orders were to proceed to Key West, after
searching for the Santiago de Cuba, Cuyler, and Penguin, with all possible
dispatch. I will require about 50 tons of coal. I doubt if I can take
it in at my present anchorage, as this steamer rolls her guards under
at present. Will you make any arrangement by which I can get my
coal and proceed to sea without delay, or inform me of the fact at your
earliest convenience l I hope, sir, you will excuse the hurried manner
in which I have written this communication, but have endeavored to
explain matters as well as possible within such limited time.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient~servant,
	J. II. SPOTTS,
	Rear.Admiral S. F. IDu PONT,	Lieutenant, Commanding.
Commanding South Atlantic Blockading Squadron.

[Subenclosures.]

FLAGSHIP ST. LAWRENCE,
Key West, August 22, 1862.
	Sn~:	I amin formed by the consul-general at Havana (several copies
of his letters are enclosed with this) that the steamer Oreto, commanded
by Maffitt, has sailed from Nassau on a piratical cruise, and is now prob-
ably at Cardenas. You will therefore do your utmost to hasten the
repairs of your engine and proceed with all dispatch to Havana and
communicate with Mr. Shufeldt. You will then communicate with our
ships near the Providence Channel or go at once to Cardenas, as you
may ,judge most expedient. Much must be left to your zeal and judg-
ment.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	L. LARDNER,
	Commodore, Commanding Eastern aulf Squadron.
Lieutenant Commanding JAS. II. SPOTTS,
U.	S. S. Magnolia.

U.	S. CONSULATE-GENERAL,
flavana, August 24, 1862.
	SIR:	From information received from Cardenas, the rebel steamer
Oreto, or Florida, is still lying at Cay Diana, about 12 miles from the
town of Cardenas, in Cuban waters. Please to go to sea immediately
and notify our cruisers that they proceed to Cardenas to look after
that ship, and prevent her by all means from getting to sea. She
is commanded by ex-Lientenant Maffitt, is said to be very fast, armed
with 6 rifled guns, but very short of crew. I beg to remind you tha

Page 422

422	OPERATTON~ OF THE CRITISERSUNION.

the U. S. mail steamer Columbia will be due here on the 1st or 2d prox-
imo. It is possible the object of the Florida is to capture the Columbia.
I am, sir, respectfully, your obedient servant,
R.	W. SHUFELDT,
Consul- aeneral.
	Lieutenant Commanding SPOTTS,
U.	S. S. Magnolia, present.

U.	S. S. ADIRONDACK.
	Sm: After cruising in search of the cruisers you were sent to find by
Flag-Officer Lardner, such reasonable time as in yourjndgment is proper
for you to do so, proceed with the Magnolia to Port Royal, S. C., and
report to Admiral Pu Pont the condition of this ship, delivering to him
the accompanying dispatch, with the reqnest that he will send such
vessel to her assistance as he may think fit.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GUERT GANSEVOORT,
Captain.
	Commander JAS. H. SPOTTS, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Magnolia.


Letter from Rear-Admiral flu Pont, U. S. Navy, commanding South Atlantic Blockading
Squadron, to the Secretary of the Navy, transmitting reports of the loss of the U. S. S.
Adirondack from the;officers of that vessel.

FLAGSHIP WABASH,

Port Royal Harbor, S. C., September 8, 1862.
	SIR: In my communication of the 5th instant I informed the Depart-
ment of the return to this port of the Canandaigna with the officers and
crew of the Adirondack.
	I have now the honor to enclose to the Department Captain Ganse-
voorts detailed report of the loss of his ship, with a copy of that of the
officer who had charge of the chronometers and kept the reckoning; also
a copy of my letter in acknowledging Captain Gansevoorts report to
me, and an application from Captain Gansevoort for a court of inquiry.
	These papers contain all the material facts in the case for the con-
sideration of the Department.
	Respectfully, etc.,	~. F. Pu PONT,
	Rear-Admiral.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

[Enclosuresi

Report of Captain Gansevoort, U. S.	Navy, commanding U. S. S. Adirondack, of the wreck
of that vessel.

U.	S. S. CANANDAIGUA,
Harbor of Port Royal, S. C., September 5, 1862.
	SIR:	I regret to have to report to you the loss of the U. S. steam
sloop of war Adirondack, lately under my command. After leaving
Port Royal in obeaience to yonr order of August, 1862, to carry out a
previous order from the Navy Department, I proceeded in the Adiron-
dack on the duty thereby assigned to me. Everything went well until
Saturday, August 23, when, at about 5 minutes before 4 a. in., the shi

Page 423

OPERATIONS OF CHE CRUISEESUN[ON.	423

struck upon the reef just outside of the Man of War Cay, of the Little
Bahama Bank group. The very first thump she gave, the engine
became disabled and could not be used. I at once resorted to the
usual means to save her. Our stream anchor was carried out astern, but
came home. The ship was Lightened to the greatest extent possible
under the circumstances. Soon after she struck, a large force of wreck-
ers came out to our assistance. I had no boat that would carry out a
bower anchor, and endeavored at first to hire, and did hire, a wrecking
schooner for that purpose, but the owners refused to keep their agree-
ment.
	After several contracts had been made and broken, upon various pre-
tenses, I finally, at about 2 p. in., succeeded in getting the anchor out
by the nse of a schooner I had to buy at an exorbitant price, but during
the time that had been lost the ship had so strained herself as to be
leaking badly. Every effort had been meanwhile made to lighten her.
Early in the day she had been relieved of the XI-inch guns, and large
gangs of men had been engaged in throwing overboard coal, and taking
l)rovisions and other articles to the wrecking fleet inside the reef and
heaving at the capstan. All efforts, however, to save her proved un-
availing, and at about 6 p. m. both cables parted, the ship bilged, with
her back broken and keel forced up under engine-room floor nearly to
a right angle. At dark, further effort being useless, I sent my officers
and crew, except a few who remained with me on board the ship, to the
wrecking fleet for safety. I remained on board until Tuesday, the 26th,
with part of my officers and crew, (loing what I could to save the Gov-
ernment property, and then left her under charge of a wreck master,
whom I appointed under the wrecking laws of the Bahamas.
	Immediately after the ship struck I dispatched a boat, under charge
of Midshipman Haswell, to Nassau to communicate with the U. S. con-
sul there, state our condition, and procure assistance. Shortly after a
second message was sent by a schooner, which passed on her way to
Nassau from New York.
	Head winds entirely prevented the boat from going farther than the
Hole in the Wall, and so delayed the schooner that the consul did not
receive my letter until Tuesday morning, August 26, too late to enable
him to help us. He immediately chartered the large side-wheel steamer
Pacific, but her owners afterwards broke their agreement. The consul
himself came up to see me, but before his arrival the ship was beyond
the hope of safety, and nothing remained to be done except to make
arrangemetits concerning the Government property which had been
saved and sent to Nassau.
	Nearly all of it has subsequently gone there, consigned to Messrs. T.
Darling &#38; Co., an American house, to be held and disposed of as the
Department may direct.
	On Monday, August 25, the U. S. S. ]llagnolia came in sight, and
after communicating with Commander Spotts I decided to send her off,
first to carry out the orders of Flag-Officer Lardner, and then commu-
nicate to you our condition. The Magnolia brought the news of the
escape of the Oreto from Nassau. I judged it expedient to spike and
otherwise mutilate the guns remaining on board and threw them over-
board and destroyed their carriages, saving only such parts of them as
are particularly the ordnance stores, such as composition locks and
eccentric rollers, sights, etc. I saved the 24-pounder howitzers and
the boat gun, a light 12-pounder, with their carriages As all the
property was saved through the wreckers efforts, combined with our
own, they have their claim for salvage. I came to an agreement wit

Page 424

424	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

them ill reference to salvage upon provisions, ordnance stores, undam-
aged powder, and tanks and instruments, and drew upon Messrs. T.
Darling &#38; Co. for the amount. It became necessary to hire vessels to
keep these articles on board, and so I have hired two and have settled
the bills for their use in the usual way.
	I stated above that I had to purchase a vessel to carry out the
anchor. The price demanded was $2,500. I subsequently arranged
with her owners to cancel the agreement of purchase and take $625 for
her use, which they did.
	On the 1st of September the Canandaigna made her appearance, and
Captain Green communicated with me, and on the next day I and my
officers and crew came on board. It was my purpose to have brought
all the provisions, ordnance stores, and instruments and boats away in
this vessel. Upon consulting with Captain Green, however, I judged
it expedient to send all but arms, ammunition and tanks, howitzers,
iind instruments to Nassau.
	I take this opportunity to commend the coolness, obedience, and
attention to duties of all my officers and crew. I could not have
expected or desired better conduct than all have displayed under all
the trying circumstances that the ships loss has occasioned, either
while they remained on board or since they went on shore.
	1 attribute the loss of the ship to a mistake of the calculations of the
first lieutenant, who navigated the ship, and to a westerly current,
and I respectfully refer you to his report to me on the subject, a copy
of which is herewith enclosed.
	Mr. Parker is an excellent officer and an able navigator, and never
to my kndwledge made any mistake in his calculations for determining
the position of the ship, previous to the 23d. I herewith enclose my
application to the honorable Secretary of the Navy for a court of
enquiry on the loss of the Adirondack, which I beg you will do me the
kindness to forward by the first mail, and further to request that you
may send me and such officers as may be necessary to a full investiga-
tion north, at your earliest convenience.
	I need not say to you,sir, who has known me so long and so well,
how deeply I feel the loss of the ship.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GUERT GANSEVOORT,
	Rear-Admiral S. F. Du PONT,	Captain.
Commanding South Atlantic Squadron.


Report of Acting Lieutenant Parker, U. S. Navy, executive officer, U S. S. Adirondack
of the wreck of that ves8el.

U.	S. S. CANANDAIGUA,
At Sea, September 5, 1862.
	Sin:	I have the honor to submit the following statement concerning
the navigation of the Adirondack for the twenty-four hours previous to
her wreck. She went on shore near Man of War Cay, in about latitude
260 38~ N., longitude 76~ 54 W., on Saturday, August 23, 1862, at about
3:55 a. in. I take this position from the chart. The observations on
the day preceding (Friday, 22) were good. I had a morning sight at
about 7:30 a. in. for longitude and a good meridian altitude. The longi-
tude by chronometer worked up to meridian was 770 47 W.; the latitude
270 47 N. Midshipman llaswell took observations at both morning
and noon, and his results were, with slight difference, the same a

Page 425

OPERATIONS OF ThE cRUISERSui~UoN.	425

my own. At about 4:40 p. m. I took an observation for longitude,
which, when worked back to meridian, gave longitude 770 59 45, or
nearly thirteeii minutes different from that given by my morning sight.
Midshipman llaswell had taken an afternoon sight also at 4:40 p. m.
Not being satisfied with the result of my sight, I worked out his, and
the longitude I found by his sight, when worked back to noon, gave 770
49 W., a result differing only two minutes from the mornings observa-
tions. I at once concluded that some error had been made in my
observation, either in marking time or in reading sextant, and therefore
accepted the result dednced from Mr. llaswells observation, rejecting
my own. When I came to you at 8 p. m. with the dead reckoning, I
gave you latitude 27~ 13 N., longitude 770 09 W. We together shaped
the courses to be steered during the night as follows: The course at
8:30 p. m. was changed from S. B. by B. ~ E. to S. E. by E. Forty
miles were to be run upon the course S. E. by E., counting from 8 oclock.
Then the course was to be changed to S. by E. and the ship run until
broad daylight, when this last-mentioned course was to be changed for
one that would carry us down to the Hole in the Wall.
	Since the loss of the ship I have discovered that in working out Mr.
llaswells sight I made an error, and that if I had correctly worked that
sight it would have given me the same result within thirty seconds
as my own did. I have carefully laid down upon the accompanying
chart the courses and distances you directed to be made, both from the
incorrect position I gave you at 8 p. m. and that which was correct. I
have marked the incorrect one A, 8 p. in., the correct one B, 8 p. in. A
glance at the chart will show that if the courses directed were steered,
they would in either case have carried us well clear of the land. I
believe they were steered. I gave the officer of the deck at 8:30 p. m.
a slip of paper with the courses and distances upon it, to be passed
along through the night to those who followed him. The log slate,
however, shows that at midnight the course was changed to S. E. by
S.	Even if this were so, the ship ought to have taken the direction of
the dotted lines.
	I attribute our disaster, therefore, to a strong northward and west-
ward current of rather more than 1 knot per hour. a current not indi-
cated by the charts nor by our previous experieiice in the neighborhood.
I would add that since we came on board the Canandaigna I have com-
pared our chronometer with hers, and find ours to differ twenty-six
seconds (or 6 30 of longitude), our chronometer being slow. This
difference placed us apparently farther to the eastward than we really
were. Whether the rate and error of our chronometer are the result
of rough treatment since the wreck or not, it would be hard to tell.
All care possible has been taken of it.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAMES PARKER,
Acting Lieutenant and Executive Officer.
	Captain GUERT GANSEVOORT, U. S. Navy.


Report of Captain Green, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Canandaigua, of the reception on
board that vessel of the officers, crew, and public property from the U. S. S. Adirondack.

U.	S. S. CANANDATGUA,
Port Royal, September 5, 1862.
	SIR:	I have respectfully to report that, in obedience to your order
of the 29th ultimo, I sailed from this port on the day of its receipt, and
proceeded to Man of War Cay, east point of Abaco, off which cay I

Page 426

423	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.

arrived on the 1st instant, at 9 a  in., and discovered the wreck of the
Adirondack on fire on a reef near that cay, surrounded by wreckers.
I immediately dispatched an officer, with a copy of your orders to me,
to Captain Gansevoort, who on his return informed me that Captain
Gansevoort would be ready to embark his officers, crew, and such pub-
lic property saved from the Adirondack on board the Canandaigua as I
could receive; also, that complete arrangements had been made with
a wrecking master, whom he had appointed agreeably to law, and our
consul at Nassau, to take charge of all public property already or that
might hereafter be saved from the wreck.
	Accordingly, on the afternoon of the 2d instant, Captain Gansevoort,
with his officers, crew, and as many articles saved from the Adirondack
as I could stow without seriously impairing the efficiency of my vessel,
were received on board, consisting of small arms and accouterments,
ammunition, powder, tanks, howitzers, nautical instruments, books,
etc., when at 6 p. m. I steamed for this port and arrived on the 5th
instant.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	F. GREEN,
Captain.
I~ear-Admira1 S. F. Pu PONT,
Comdg. South Atlantic Blockading Squadroa~ Port Royal, S. C.



Letter from Acting Rear-Admiral Du Pont, U. S. Navy, to Captain Gansevoort, U. S. Navy,
late commanding U. S. S. Adirondack, expressing the opinion that the loss of that vessel
was due to no lack of vigilance on the part of the latter officer.


FLAGSHIP WABASH,
Port Royal Harbor, S. C., September 7, 1862.
	Sin: I have received your report, giviug in detail the circumstances
attending the loss of the Adirondack on Man of War Cay of the Little
Bahama Bank. It is marked by great clearness and frankness of
statement. 1 have also gone over the charts with Acting Lieutenant
James Parker, the officer who was charged with the navigation of the
ship, and have been equally struck with his scrupulous candor in refer-
ence to his observations, courses steered, and general statements.
	Without desiring to anticipate any judgment which a court of inquiry,
that you have so promptly asked for, might give on a more thorough
examination, I deem it my duty to you and but an act of simple justice,
as your immediate commanding officer, to state that I can discover no
want of vigilance on your part; on the contrary, having shown all rea-
sonable caution by twice adopting a course calculated to carry you
further off the land than the one proposed. After the sad catastrophe
occurred, you did all that I fully looked for from the energy and man-
liness of your character and skill as a seaman. Your report to me,
that of Lieutenant Parker to you, your application to the Department
for a court of inquiry on the loss of the Adirondack, will all go forward
to the honorable Secretary of the Navy by the U. S. S. ill assachusetts,
Commander Cooper, who will receive you and such of your crew and
officers as I do not retain on the station for a passage to New York.
Respectfully., etc.,
S.	F. Pu PONT,
Rear-Admiral.
	Captain G. GANSEYOORT, U. S. Navy

Page 427

OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.	427


Letter from the U. S. consul at Nassau, New Providence, to the Secretary of the Navy, regard-
ing the wreck of the U. S. S. Adirondack.


U.	S. CONSULATE AT NASSAU, NEW PROVIDENCE,
September 3, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you that on the 26th August, I
received a note from Captain Gansevoort (a copy, No. 1, of which I
enclose) informing me of the stranding of the 15. 5. 5. Adirondack at
Elbow Cay, oft the island of Abaco, one of the most dangerous reefs
of the Bahamas.
	I at once applied to Captain Embleton, of the British steamer Pac~/ic,
a powerful side-wheel ship lying in this port, and engaged him to pro-
ceed with me to the scene of disaster without delay, which he agreed to
do on a charter of 200 ($960) per diem. Although I considered the
terms very exorbitant, I acceded to them, as there was no other avail-
able help in this port. Shortly after Captain Embleton and his purser,
Mr. Douglas, called at this consulate and said that ily. Adderly &#38; Co.,
and Mr. Lafitte, agents of the Confederate States of America, had
some claims on the cargo remaining on board of the Pacific, and that
they had entered a stringent protest against their proceeding with
the ship to the assistance of any United States vessel. I at once
chartered one of the largest and fleetest schooners in port, the Star of
the East, Captain Evans, with 15 men, for $100, and proceeded to the
wreck, which I reached on the afternoon of Wednesday, Angust 27.
	I found the late noble ship a complete wreck, the stores and materials
having been removed into the harbor, where I soon joined Captain
Gansevoort and his officers. The crew had been comfortably bestowed
on shore under spacious tents, and were under the best discipline, and
in good health. Several cargoes of materials saved from the wreck
rigging, blocks, brass and copper fixtures, mostly belonging to
the enginewere sent forward to Nassau on the 28th August, which
I consigned to T. Darling &#38; Co., an American house; and as
IVIr. Darling was known to me as a citizen of high influence here,
and, more than all, as a truly loyal man to the U. S. Government, I
felt satisfied that its best interests would be subserved by this
arrangement.
	I remained at the wreck until Sunday, the 31st August, when I
returned to Nassau, and on the 1st September I proceeded to view the
materials landed here from the wrecking scliooners. They had been
stored in the bonded warehouse, and I found a great quantity of heavy
brass and copper fixtures, belonging to the engineer department, which
are almost all uninjured and of great value, and which only could be
sold at auction here for old metal at a great sacrifice. These articles,
together with a lot of newsails, nubroached [sic] cordage, and two fine
manila hawsers, I have determined to hold until I receive advices from
the Department.
	The pursers stores of flannel and jackets, new canvas, etc., being all
wet and daily depreciating in value, I have directed Mr. Darling to sell
at once, together with the short pieces of ontrigging, which is of value
only as junk.
	I can not close this dispatch without bearing cheerful testimony to
the admirable conduct of Captain Gansevoort, his first lieutenant, Mr.
Parker, and, in fact, ~f all the officers and crew in this trying emer-
gency. The most consummate seamanship and the most perfect naviga-
tion are often at fault among the treacherous currents of the Bahama
reefs, and I hope to hear that the efficient officers and seamen of th

Page 428

428	OPflRATIONS OP ~HE CRUISEI~suN~oN.

noble ship, so disastrously wrecked at this important juncture, will
soon be actively and usefully employed in their countrys service.
	Nor should I neglect to apprise you of the noble conduct of Captain
Charles J. F. Ewart, of II. B. N. S. Mdpomene, who, on learning from
me of the disaster, proceeded at once to the wreck to render what
assistance might be required. Governor Bayley also proffered his
services in any manner in which they might avail, an dlam glad to
herald these kindnesses as an offset to the jubilant expressions of the
populace here at this disaster to a national vessel.
	I have the honoi to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	SAMUEL WHITING
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	U. S. Consul.
Secretary of the Navy, etc.

[Enclosure.]

IT. S. S. ADIRONDACK,
On Bahama Beef, August 23, 1862.
	Sir: Send up to us a steamer immediately. We are ashore. ~
delay. Charter her at once. The sea is smooth and we hope to escape.
Yours, truly,
	GUERT GANSEVOORT,
	Captain WHITING,	Captain.
U.	S. Consul at Nassau.


Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to the U. S. consul at Nassau, New Providence, express-
ing thanks for prompt aid rendered by British officials in the matter of the wreck of the
U. S. S. Adirondack.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, September 29, 1862.
	I have received your dispatch of the 3d instant in reference to the
loss of the U. S. steam sloop Adirondack. Permit me to tender to you
the thanks of the Department for your prompt action and assistance
on the occasion of the disaster.
	I shall request the Secretary of State to express through the British
minister at Washington the acknowledgments of this Department to
Captain [C.] J. F. Ewart, of II. B. M. S. Melpomene, for proceeding to
the wreck to render aid, and to Governor Bayley for his proffered
services. You will please ship the articles now in store at Nassau,
which were saved from the wreck, to the commandant of the navy
yard at New York, near-Admiral H. Paulding, by the earliest favorable
opportunity.
I am, respectfully,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	SAMUEL WHITING,	[Secretary of the Navy.]
U.	S. Consul, Nassau, New Providence.


Report of Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tusca.
rora, of search for the Confederate steamer 290 (Alabama), enclosing cor-
respondence with British authorities in Plymouth Sound, regarding
repairs.
U.	S. STEAM SLOOP TUSOARORA,
Plymouth Sound, August 25, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to state that my communication of August 4
will have informed you of the ill success of my search for the rebe

Page 429

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	429

steamer 290. Subsequent to the date of my letter, I received informa-
tion that the pirate was still supposed to be in the North Channel. J
at once went to the Isle of Man (a probable point indicated to me), but
could have no tidings of her. Being short of coal, and on that account
crippled and anxious, I was delayed several days, but at length having
procured a supply, I proceeded into the mouth of the Clyde, and from
there examined the coast as far as the Solway, without any intelligence
of the pirate steamer. Returning I touch at Kingstown to communi-
cate with the legation and to appoint Falmouth as the place for the
delivery of my mails. I arrived at Falmouth on the afternoon of 23d
instant, en route for Gibraltar Bay, but there received your letter of
August 1, which changed my plans. I at once sent a copy of your letter
to Mr. Adams, and as the ship requires calking immediately, I caine
to-day to this place to have that work done, bnt here am met by a
notice from Admiral Stewart, that I must formally ask permission to
calk ship. This humiliation I peremptorily refused, saying, I would
ask no favors of the British admiralty. The admiral then said he
would telegraph for authority for me to make my repairs in the
sound. The reply is a refusal, a copy of which I enclose.
	I have not yet received from Mr. Adams a reply to my letter of 23d;
if he writes me to remain about here I must first go to some port where
the ship can be properly calked. The coal business I can regulate.
	My situation on this coast, sir, is the most trying to which I have
ever been subjected. To tell you of the petty annoyances to which I
have been exposed would occupy too much of your time and attention.
The evident desire has been to drive me from the coast. I have to the
best of my ability endeavored to keep the peace, but these people
do not appreciate nor comprehend that courtesy which exists among
gentlemen.
	I enclose you copies of the letter of Admiral Stewart, and of my
reply, as also a memorandum of my interview with him, in which he
exhibits the animus under which his Govenment acts.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T.	AUGS. CRAVEN.
Commander, U. S. Navy.

Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

[Enclosures.]


ROYAL ADELAIDE,
In Hamoaze, August 25, 1862.
	SIR:	Having submitted your request to be permitted to remain in
Plymouth Sound to enable you to have the Tuscarora calked, I beg to
acquaint you that their lordships have informed me the Tuscarora can
not be permitted to be calked in the sound, but that if you make a
formal application for the same through your minister, you may await
the reply in the sound, with the understanding that you do not receive
coal or anything beyond the daily supplies necessary for the crew.
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant
HOUSTON STEWART,
Vice-Admiral.

Captain CRAVEN,
U.	S. War Steamer Tuscarora

Page 430

	430	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		       COPY OF MEMORANDUM.

AUGUST 25, 1862.
	At noon this day I anchored the Tasearora in Plymouth Sound.
After having received the usual visits of etiquette, I, at 4:30 p. in.,
called on the admiral, Sir Houston Stewart. in the course of conver-
sation with him I stated that I wished to calk the ship here. He
replied that Captain [W. K.] Hall had so informed him by telegraph
from Falmouth; that he had communicated the same to the adinir-
ality, and the reply was, Captain Craven must make application
through the U. S. minister for permission to repair. I replied, I
would do no such thing; I would ask no favor nor indulgence; it was
my right to repair. The admiral said he had no authority to permit
me to go into the harbor without permission from the admirality. I
replied, I did not wish to enter the harbor because it involved the
necessity of taking out my powder, which I did not wish to part with.
Oh, said he, if that is all, and you can calk in the sound, I will
telegraph to that effect.
	He then wrote a telegram as follows: Captain Craven has just
called on me; he does not wish to enter the harbor; can calk in the
sound in two days; can he do soG?~~ This message was sent at 5 p. m.
and at 6:30 I received a refusal. (Copy furnished.)
	In the course of conversation Sir Houston Stewart said that his Gov-
ernment wished to be neutral. I replied that was all we asked. He
answered, You are only lying about here to watch for a chance to
pick up some vessel of what you call rebels. I answered, I was
cruising to protect our commerce. To my astonishment he said, You
have no commerce here. I interrupted him by saying, We have as
much commerce in the British Channel as you have.
	He also had the bad taste to say that his Government regretted to
see us all cutting each others throats. I answered that that had noth-
ing to do with my interview with him.
T.	AUGS. CRAVEN,
Commander, U. S. Navy.



U.	S. STEAM SLOOP TUSOARORA,
Plymouth Sound, August 25, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communi-
cation of this evening. I can discover no clause in the order of 31st
of January, 1861, issued by Earl Russell, requiring me to ask permis-
sioii to effect necessary repairs, nor do I feel disposed to ask any
indulgencies of the admiralty.
	1 came to this port in good faith to have my work done expeditiously,
and not doubting my ability to do it here I have permitted the second
master (Stannard) to go to Southampton to be absent until Wednes-
day at 4 p. m. He left the ship at Falmouth. I have telegraphed him
to return without delay. As soon as he arrives I will put to sea, and
in some other port seek those courtesies which arc usually extended to
the ships of nations between which exist relations of peace and amity.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T.	AUGS. CRAVEN,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
	Vice-Admiral Sir HOUSTON STEWART.






r p~ I

Page 431

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	431

Order of Rear-Admiral Goldsborough, U. S. Navy, commanding North
Atlantic Blockading AS~quadron, to Captain McKinstry, U. S. Navy, com-
manding U. S. S. Dacotah,to cruise in search of steamers Oreto and 290.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP MINNESOTA,
Norfolk, Va., September 4, 1862.
	SIR: Proceed immediately with the U. S. S. Dacotah direct to Nassau
in pursuit of privateers 290 and Oreto, descriptions of which vessels
you will find among the accompanying printed papers. Afterwards
you will proceed to Key West and report to Commodore James L.
Larduer for duty in the squadron under his command.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
L.	M. GOLDSBOROUGH,
Rear-Admiral.
Captain J. P. MOKINSTRY,
Commanding Dacotah, Newport News, Va.
(Same to Commander Woodhull, commanding the lIT. S. S. Cimarron.)



Escape of the C. S. S. Florida (Oreto) into Mobile Bay, September 4,1862.
Report of Rear-Admiral Farragut, U. S. Navy, commanding Western Gulf Blockading Squad-
ron, enclosing reports of Oommander Preble, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Oneida.

FLAGSHiP HARTFORD,
Pensacola Bay, September 8, 1862.
	SIR: I regret to be compelled again to make another mortifying
acknowledgment of apparent neglect, viz, the running of the blockade
at Mobile by a 10-gun gunboat, supposed to be the Lairds gunboat,
Captain Bulloch. You will perceive, however, from Captain Prebles
1 eport, herewith enclosed, that there was no want of vigilance. They
saw her in good time, and were alongside in good time, but failed to
sink or capture her. Why Captain Preble did not fire into her after
she failedto stop or answer his hail, I can iiot imagine. The commander
of the Rachel Seaman says, and I believe they all admit, that there
never was a finer opportunity for stopping a vessel, until she passed
them; then, however, when it was too late, they commenced firingthe
Oneida first, the Winona next, and the Rachel Seaman last. They all
say that they struck her, but she kept her course; she hauled down the
English colors as soon as they commenced firing at her, but hoisted no
others; she appeared to have a small crew, only enough to bring her
out, but if she is the Lairds gunboat she draws too much water to go
up the bay, and will therefore have to take her chance with the forts.
The passing of the blockade was owing to two thingsfirst, not firing
at her in time when she was so close that they could not miss her;
second, bad firing.
	Theyhavenowthree10~gungunboatsinMobile,andwill require a
large force to blockade them, and I think it will be cheaper to run the
forts if 1 can secure an outlet through Grants Pass.
	I will soon have my vessels in condition to try it.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
D. G. FARRAGUT,
Rear-Admiral, Conimanding Western Gulf Blockading Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
S~cretar~ of the Nacy, Washington, D. C

Page 432

	432	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS-UNION.
		                   [Enclosures.]

Report of Commander Preble, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Oneida, of the escape of

the C. S. S. Florida (Oreto) into Mobile Bay, Alabama.
U.	S. SLOOP ONEIDA,
Off Mobile, September 4, 1862.
	SIR: I regret having to inform you that a 3-masted screw steamer,
bearing an English red ensign and pennant, and carrying four quarter
boats and a battery of six or eight broadside guns and one or two pivots,
and having every appearance of an English man-of-war, ran the block-
ade this afternoon under the following circumstances:
	I had sent the Winona to the westward to speak a schooner standing
in under sail, when the smoke of a steamer was discovered bearing
about southeast, and standing directly for us. Observing that she was
burning black smoke, I immediately got the Oneida underway and
stood toward her, signaling to the Winona to chase at ~
We sooii neared the stranger in company with the Winona, who, as we
approached him, gradually hauled to the northward and westward.
When abeam of him, about 100 yards distant, I hailed him, but receiving
no answer I fired a shot across his bows. He ranged ahead without
stopping, but still thinking him an English man-of-war, I fired two
more shots across his bows, and then directed a shot at him, which
unfortunately went over between his fore and main masts. He soon
hauled down his flag and trained his gnus to bear on us, but having no
flag to fight under did not fire. We continued firing at him, assisted
by the Winona and one of the mortar schooners, but he made sail, and
by his superior speed and unparalleled audacity managed to escape.
We sent our shot and shell all around and over him, and are certain
that several of our shots and the Winonas struck him. The Cayuga
was to the westward of the port, and not in signal distance.
	The Cuba is loaded and ready to run the blockade, and I beg leave
to suggest the necessity of more vessels on this statiom as the few here
now frequently have to be scattered and sent in chase of the numerous
vessels that appear in sight.
	With great mortification, I am, very respectfully, your obedient serv-
ant,
GEo. HENRY PREELE,
Commander.
	Rear-Admiral D. G. FARRAGUT,
Commanding Western Gulf Blockading Squadron,
Flagship Hartford, Pensacola.


Abstract of log of U. S. S. Oneida, Commander George IT. Preble, September 4, 1862.

	September 4.Bearings from first anchorage, Mobile Point light, N.
by W. * W., Sand Island light, N. W. ~ W. At 2 p. m. a sail reported
bearing S. S. W. At 3:35 made a sail bearing S. S. E.; during the watch
two rebel steamers cruising around between the forts. At 4:10 made
signal to the Winona, 1073. At 4:25 fired the howitzer. At 5:05 a sail
reported bearing S. ~ E. At 5:15 made signal to Winona, 282. At 5:30
got underway and stood for the strange steamer. At 5:45 went to
quarters; discovered her to be a barkentine-rigged steamer with Eng-
lish pennant and ensign flying, carrying eight broadside and one or two
pivot guns; had the appearance of a man-of-war. At 6 fired a sho

Page 433

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	433

across her bows, which passed unnoticed; two more were also fired
across her bows, but failed to bring her to. At 6:03 fired into her with
starboard battery and both pivot guns. At 6:05 she hauled down the
English ensign. At 6:10 she set her topsail and topgallant sail. The
gunboat Winona and mortar schooner opened fire immediately after we
did. The enemy trained his guns on us, bnt did not fire. At 6:27
ceased firing, being in 3 fathoms water and the darkness rendering
landmarks invisible. Fired from forward XI-inch gun 5 shells (5
seconds) and 1 shrapnel; after XJ-inch gun, 5 shells (5 seconds), 2 of 10
seconds, and 1 shrapnel; forward pivot rifle, 12 Dahlgren bolts and 1
Schenki shell; starboard broadside 32-pounder, 1 shell (5 seconds);
howitzer, 1 canister. At 6:45 stood for our anchorage.



Letter from Rear-Admiral Yarragut, U. S. Navy, commanding Western Gulf Blockading
Squadron, to Commander Preble, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Oneida.

FLAGSHIP HARTFORD,
Pensacola Bay, September 5, 18G2.
	SIR:	I am very much pained to hear of the passage into Mobile Bay
of gunboat No. 290. [Error; this vessel was the Florida.] You
should have fired but one blank cartridge or shot to heave the vessel
to; the others should have been fired into her.
Very respectfully, etc.,
D.	G. FARRAGUT,
	Rear-Admiral, Commanding Western Gulf Blockading Squadron.
Commander GRO. fl. PREBLE,
Senior Naval Officer.


Second report of Commander Preble, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Oneida, regarding the
escape of the C. 5. 5. Florida (Oreto) into Mobile Bay, Alabama.

111.	5. SLOOP ONEIDA,
Off Mobile, September 6, 1862.
	SIR:	As in your letter of the 5th instant you seem to censure my
having fired more than one shot across the bow of the gunboat 290,
the supposed English man-of war which ran the blockade on the 4th
instant, justice to myself urges me to explain that from the time of the
first shot being fired across her bows to the fourth shot, which was
fired at but unfortunately went over her, was, according to my clerk,
who took minutes of the time, only three minutes, and a third shot was
fired at her foretbot. She hauled down her colors five minutes after
the first shot. As she did not stop her engines I took no heed of it,
but continued my fire on her. Most of our shot struck the water just
inside of her, and ricochetted over between her masts and pipes. Two
of our shells seemed to burst over her iii passing. The confident bold-
ness with which she stood toward us, and within hail, helped her decep-
tion. My impression is, thinking us one of the gunboats, the intention
was to engage us, but on discovering our force the men were sent below,
out of harms way. They at first trained their battery on ns, so our
masthead lookout reported, and afterwards only three men remained
on deck, and they failed .to get the sheets home of the sails loosed. Had
I been officially or unofficially, in any way, informed that a man of-
war steamer was expected or on the ocean I would have known her
true character and could have run her down

Page 434

434	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	One of our boilers had been under repairs all the morning, and when
we got underway we had full steam only on one boiler, and were rais-
ing it on the other, and could not immediately get np fall speed. A
mile or so of distance, and a few minutes more of daylight, and she
mast have been ours.
	I ran the Oneida into 3 fathoms, when, as no landmarks could be
seen, 1 was obliged to haul off. The rebel went over the shoal water
near the southeast breaker head, where we could not follow, and was
in the main ship channel and covered by the guns of the forts within
half an hour after our first shot at him.
	Her forward pivot gun was trained to bear upon us, and the boat.
swain, who saw it from aloft, says it is a heavy gunhe should say a
10-inch, probably a heavy rifle. Her broadside guns look to me like
English 32-pounders, of 42 cwt.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEG. HENRY PREELE,
Commander.
	Rear-Admiral D. G. FARRAGUT,
Commanding West Gulf Blockading Squadron,
Flagship Hartford, Pensacola.



Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Preble, commanding U. S. S. Oneida,
dismissing him from the U. S. Navy.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, September 20,1862.
	SIR:	Rear-Admiral Farragut has transmitted to the Department
your letter addressed to him on the 4th instant, in which you report
that on the afternoon of that day a vessel carrying four quarter
boats and a battery of eight broadside guns, one or two pivots, and
having every appearance of an English man-of-war, ran the blockade,
and of her approach you had abundant notice, and when abeam of
her, about 100 yards distant, you hailed her, fired repeatedly across
her bow, over and at her, but she managed, by superior speed and
unparalleled audacity to enter the harbor of Mobile. Upon submit-
ting your letter to the President, I received from him prompt directions
to announce to you your dismissal from the service. You will from
this date cease to be regarded as an officer of the Navy of the United
States.
	I am, respectfully,	GIDEON WELLES,

[Secretary of the Navy.]
GEORGE H. PREELE,
Late commander, U. S. Navy, West Gulf Blockading Squadron.



Letter from G. H. Preble, late commander, U. S. Navy, to Rear-Admiral Farragut, U. S. Navy,
commanding Western Gulf Blockading Squadron, requesting a court of enquiry.


U.	S. STEAM SLOOP ONEIDA,
Off Mobile, October 8, 1862.
	SIR: Unseen and unheard, while engaged on distant service, 1 learn
from the columns of a newspaper that my name has been struck from
the rolls of the Navy, after twenty-seven years honorable servitude, fo

Page 435

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
435
alleged negligence in allowing the Oreto to escape into Mobile Bay on
the afternoon of the 4th of September. This injustice to me, as I feel
assured you will consider it, has been done mainly, and [think unin-
tentionally, ou your part, from the impression produced by your letter
of the 8th ultimo to the Navy Department, forwarding my first hasty
and incomplete report of that occurrence. I judge so, because that
letter and my report are to be spread upou the log books and read to
the assembled crews to account for the geueral order that follows. My
report was written hurriedly and sent off~ a few minutes after the affair
by the Winona, which vessel I dispatched at once to Pensacola with
the intelligence, leaving it to her commander to inform you of all the
particulars, of which he was fully cognizant. He afterwards informed
me he rendered a full account. I also sent by him the gunners state-
ment of shot and shell expended by this vessel, not having had time
to incorporate it in my report.
	The two concluding paragraphs in my report, I notice, are omitted in
the printed letter. Though perhaps of but little import as bearing
upon the question at issue, if I am to be judged by my report I should
like to have the whole of it, and not an imperfect copy, spread upon the
log books of the Navy.
	You say in your letter to the Secretary of the Navy, you have again
to make another mortifying acknowledgment of apparent neglect. I
know nothing of the former occasion referred to, but may I ask was my
neglect so apparent, when, as you say lower down, there was no
want of vigilance.~~ I can not believe that yourself or anyone can sup-
pose or imagine that any officer would not do his utmost, under the cir-
cumstances that followed, to pursue and capture his flying enemy, a
rich and honorable prize. You next say, Why Captain Preble did not
fire into her after she failed to stop or answer his hail, I can not imag-
ine.
	My report shows that I did fire at her, and into her, immediately
afterwards, and the gunners report will show how often; we have
since learned from rebel sources with some effect. All together over
fifty shot and shell were fired at her in the half hours chase by the
three vessels, of which thirty-five were from this vessel.
	I gave credit to the commanding officer of the Rachel Seamen (whose
appearance was quite unexpected) for his good conduct in firing at the
steamer three or four shots, and for his judgment in tacking off shore
when he was likely to interfere with our chase. I also requested the
commander of the Winona to verbally report his not hoisting his colors
when chased and boarded by that vessel shortly before, and for not
having them hoisted while he was firing at the enemy. Though his
conduct was praiseworthy, I can not think you are justified in giving
his opinion to the Department, that there never was a finer oppor
tunity for stopping a vessel, etc., without first asking from me a full
report of all the attendant circumstances, which he, three or more
miles off at the close of the chase, could not have known.
	Yonr next remark is that the firing was too late. As it was coin-
menced as soon as the vessel was hailed, and continued whenever and
as often as a gun could be brought to bear until the vessel escaped us
into shoal water, when we were obliged to haul ofl I can not understand
in what sense it was too late. In a subsequent report I explained to
you that the time occupied in firing the three shots across his bow, one
of which was aimed at his forefoot, was less than three minutes. The
next shell was fired from the XI-inch after pivot gun and aimed at
his hull, but unfortunately went over him. As to the shooting, if i

Page 436

436	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

was bad, I had been but a few days in command and the blame can not
rest with me. But I may remark, onr shot fell very close, though
seemingly doing but little damage.
	Excuse the freedom with which I have analyzed your letter to the
Department, feeling sure it has borne quite a different construction
from what you intended, and that you will be ready to repair, so far as
you can, the lasting injury it has caused me. Had you considered me
deserving of this unjust sentence, I am sure you would not have
retained me for an hour iii the command of this vessel and on the same
blockade.
	For my position in the Navy I care but little, but my reputation as
an officer is very dear to me, and has hitherto been unsullied in a long
course of service. The distress this newspaper announcement will
occasion my family and friends is very trying to me. Up to the time
of joining your command, in March last, I had not the pleasure of your
personal acquaintance. Since then you have had frequent occasions to
judge my professional ability, activity, and intelligence. I ask you,
therefore, as a matter of justice, to give me in writing your free and
candid judgment on my conduct in this affair. The poorest boy or man
in the service has for his petty offenses the privilege of a summary
court-martial and a hearing. Through you I respectfully request from
the Navy Department a court of enquiry into my conduct on this occa-
sion, and would willingly have it extended through my whole term of
service in the Navy, confident of a clean record. I court a full and
complete investigation.
	I hope yet to see an order revoking the order for my dismissal read
to the crews in as public a manner and spread upon the log books on
the same page as the former.
I feel sure the President does not design to do injustice to anyone.
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEO. HENRY PREBLE,
Commander.
Rear-Admiral D. G. FARRAGUT, U. S. Navy,
Commctuding Western Gulf Blockading Squadron,
Hartford, Pensacola.



Third report of G. H. Freble, late commander, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Oneida, of the
escape of the C. S. S. Florida (Oreto) into Mobile Bay, Alabama.

U.	S. SLOOP ONEIDA,
Off Mobile, October 10, 1862.
	SIR: Having never made a full and complete written, though several
verbal, reports of the chase of the rebel war steamer Oreto, alias Flor-
ida, by the Oneida, on the 4th of September last, and circumstances
having occurred that require I should do so, I submit the following:
	On the 4th of September the blockading force off Mobile consisted
of the Oneida, Cayuga, and Winona, myself the senior officer, a posi-
tion I had occupied since the 30th of August, when the steam frigate
Susquehanna left for Pensacola for repairs. The steam gunboats Pinola,
Kanawha, and Kennebec, all attached to this blockade, were also tempo-
rarily withdrawn and at Pensacola for repairs or coal. The small and
reduced force left at my command was thus distributed: The Winona,
to the northward and eastward of the bar, to guard the swash chan
nel; the Calluga, to the northward and westward, to guard the wester

Page 437

OPREATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	437

channel; and the Oneida, off to the southward of the bar, to guard the
main ship channel. The evening previous I gave instructions to the
(Jaynga to go to the westward in the morning, take a look at Petit Bois
and Horn Island passes, which were necessarily unguarded, get some
fresh beef from Petit Bois, and return as soon as these objects were
accomplished. Consequently the Cayuga was not in sight when the
Oreto ran in.
	The evening previous also the chief engineer represented to me the
very bad and leaky condition of the boilers, stating that an almost con-
stant use of the donkey pump was necessary, in consequence, when the
engines were not in motion. With some hesitation, though it had been
the custom to do so with my predecessors on the blockade, I gave him
permission to haul the fire under one boiler the next morning at day-
light, provided he would hurry up and complete the repairs before
night, and ordered a full pressure of steam to be kept on the remaining
boiler. About noon, or scon after, I sent for him to ascertain how the
work was progressing, and receiving a satisfactory reply, congratulated
myself the work was nearly accomplished. At 3:45 fires were started
under the repaired boiler. When we got underway at 5:30 p. in., iu
chase, I fully believed we had steam under both boilers. We were not,
however, able to obtain a working pressnre of steam on the repaired
boiler until our return from the chase of the Oreto to our anchorage off
the bar at 7:30 p. in., consequently our usual good-weather speed of
10 to l0~ knots was very much diminished, and, instead of 60 to 70
revolutions of the screw, we were only able to make about 38 to 40,
and an estimated speed of 7 knots. During the chase the steam was
run down from 24 pounds to 15.
	At daylight, or soon after, on the 4th, a square-rigged sailing vessel
was observed to the southward, and the Winona, under general instruc-
tions, went out in chase. At 2p. in. another sail was reported, which the
Winona boarded. At 3:35 another sail was discovered to the southward
and westward. The Winona then standing toward us and apparently
not observing her, I fired our howitzer to attract her attention, and then
made signal to her to speak the strange sail and bring the commander
in chief intelligence, if any; if none, return to your station. She
accordingly stood off to the southward and westward in the direction
of the strange sail, which proved to be a schooner (the Rachel Seaman),
and was returning toward the Oneida to communicate, when at 5:05 a
sail was reported from aloft as the Susquehanna, but geimerally supposed
to be the Connecticut, known to be at Pensacola, and momentarily
expected. The strange steamer when discovered was standing for us,
with her three masts in a line or range. We could see she had square
yards forward, though hull down. At 5:15 we saw she was burning
bituminous coal, and a slight yaw in her course showed me she was
barkentine rigged. Impressed with the idea she was an English gun-
boat inspecting our blockade, I made signal to the Winona to chase
at discretion, and got the Oneida immediately underway and stood
toward her, thinking it would look more vigilant to the English man-
of-war to be underway and at quarters when we met him. We accord-
ingly furled awnings and were at general quarters before we were in
rifle range of the stranger, and over fifteen minutes before we fired our
first shot at him.
	The Oneida was steered for the port bow of the stranger, who, as
we approached him, continued to steer directly for us and hoisted an
English red ensign. He had already up a short coach whip or night
pennant. We could now see she carried quarter and waist boats; ha

Page 438

438	OPERATIONS OF THE CRtTISERSUNLON7

a broadside of guns with tompions out; hammock nettings and air ports
fore and aft; and in fact wore every appearance of being an English dis-
patch gunboat. I believe every person on board the Oneida was im-
pressed with this belief, being ignorant that the rebels had a vessel of
war on the ocean from the delay of the Gonneeticuts mail at Pensacola,
which, when received from her on the 6th, gave us the first intimation
we had of the Oreto being at Cardenas and of No. 290 having left
England. When near the supposed man-of war we put onr helm to
starboard so as not to pass him, and came round to the northward and
westward so as to lie about abeam of him, or perhaps a little across or
on his port bow. He was steaming very rapidly, and when within
about 100 yards, perhaps nearer, the two vessels nearly abeam of each
other, 1 hailed him, but receiving no answer, directed a shot from the
rifled forecastle pivot to be thrown across his bow, then another, and
then a third close to his forefoot, all in rapid succession. As these
guns produced no impression, I directed to fire into him, and almost
simultaneously the whole starboard broadside was discharged at him;
the first shot, however, from the after XJ-inch pivot gun went just over
his rail between his fore and main masts. As it was a shrapnel, with
fuse cut to a second and a quarter and fell into the water without
exploding, you can judge how near we were to him. My clerk, who
timed the firing, states that the first gun fired across his bows was 6
p. m. and the order given to fire into him at 6:03 p. m. At 6:05 he
hauled down his colors and pennant and hoisted no others during the
chase. Seeing no slacking up of his speed, I gave orders to continue
our fire. About this time the Winona opened fire on him from her
position astern, and soon after the schooner which the Winona had
boarded stood in toward our bow and fired three or four shots at him,
which was the first intimation I had of her being a friendly vessel of
war, as she showed no colors before, after, or during the continuance of
the chase. I thought the spirit with which her commander attempted
to assist in the capture of the vessel very praiseworthy, and approved
of the judgment with which he tacked offshore when likely to embar-
rass our chase by- getting under our bows. Both vessels were grad-
ually sheered inshore, the stranger evidently fast gaining upon us, so
that we had to train our pivot guns sharp forward and yaw off to bring
them to bear upon him. This and the smoke from our guns, which
hung between us, prevented our firing as rapidly as we conld have
wished.
	Soon after we opened fire upon him he attempted to make sail by
loosing his fore-topsail and fore-topgallant sail, but the explosion of
one of our shells over his deck hurried the men from aloft; they never
got the sheets fairly home, and the sails were of little or no assistance
to him, as the wind was light. We thought he trained his guns to bear
npon us, though he did not fire, and the boatswain reported from aloft
that he was training his forward pivot gun, but he has since told me
he was mistaken, and the men he saw were at work at the rigging
of the sails loosed. At first he had from twenty to thirty men on deck,
but after our firing commenced the boatswain could see from aloft but
three or fourthe man at the wheel, one forward, and one or two pass-
ing along the deck.
	Continuing our firing as rapidly as circumstances wnuld admit, and
giving repeated orders to go faster and to take better aim, not under-
standing at the time why we could not keep up with the stranger, who
was evidently gaining on us, I saw we were standing in toward the
ruins of Sand Island light-house, and the stranger was crossing th

Page 439

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	439

head of the southeast breakers on the eastern side of the channel.
The leadsman soon gave ?~ fathoms of water, and night closing
aronnd us, I was reluctantly compelled to pnt our helm aport and
abandon the chase at 6:27 p. in., and had the mortificatioi~ of seeing
the stranger cross the shoal without striking and haul up into the
main ship channel, giving her a last shot from the forecastle rifle pivoted
over to port, the only gun that would bear as we hauled off.
	The Winona. chasing astern and using her gun pivoted on the port
side, went inshore of the chase and hauled off at about the same time,
when (as her commander informed me) in 12 feet of water. We con-
tinued the chase as long as it was prudent or profitable to do so. Find-
ing the rebel had escaped us, I returned to the anchorage off the
bar, where I was joined by the Winona.
	Believing it important you should have early intelligence of what had
happened, I signaled the captain of the Winona to come on board, and,
writing my hurried and incomplete report of the 4th, directed the cap-
tain of the Winona to take his station for the night and at early day-
light proceed to Pensacola with my dispatch, accompanying which was
the gunners report of shot and shell fired, and enjoining upon him to
acquaint you with all the particulars such as I had no time to give. I
then hurried him back to his station to the northward and eastward,
fearing, as it was very dark, something might slip out. At 11 p. m.
the Caynga returned from Horn Island Pass. Captain Thornton and the
Winona returned to this blockade at 10 p. in., the 5th, bringing me your
letter of that date, in which you express the opinion I should have fired
but one shot across his bows and the next at him. Had I not been
almost convinced he was an English man-of-war I would undoubtedly
have done so, but the deception was perfect, and his unparalleled
audacity in standing directly and boldly for us helped the deception.
I did not wish to break our neutrality or be wanting in courtesy with a
friendly nation.
	When we first ranged up in hailing distance I could undoubtedly
have boarded him or run him down~ but it was too late for these maneu-
vers when his true character was discovered.
	Thinking you are wrongly impressed as to time occupied in the firing
across his bows and into him, I wrote you my letter of September 6,
informing you that it was only three minutes, and at the same time
giving you a few facts concerning the chase, but still no complete
report, as I supposed Captain Thornton had related to you all the partic-
ulars. Subsequently, at Pensacola, I had opportunity of explaining to
you in person, when you remarked that you had written the Secretary
that you did not see that I was to blame, but the rebel steamers escape
was owing to bad shooting. Judge my surprise, then, when I find
myself suddenly and ignominiously dismissed from the Navy on your
forwarding my first hasty statement of this affair. I told you that I
did not claim to have hit the vessel at all, though our shot covered her
and were very close ones, as I could see with my glass no marks upon
her hull or spars. We have since learned she was hit several times;
that an Xl-inch shell went into her coal bunkers a foot from the water
line; that her sides were pretty well peppered with grape, shrapiiel,
and pieces of shell, and that she had one man killed and two wounded,
as the rebel account says, out of a crew of 13, mostly sick.
	Allowing her to have had 20 or 30 for a crew, this is a greater
comparative percentage of casualties than happened to this squadron
in passing the Mississippi forts, and greater also than it was each time
the batteries of Vicksburg were successfully run. Can it he considere

Page 440

440
OPERATIONS OP THE CR1iISERS-~UNION.
remarkable that after those successful achievements of your squadron
this rebel steamer, in humble imitation, should succeed iu passing under
the fire of two ganboats without being sunk or materially injured?
	That I did my whole duty in this matter I fearlessly claim. That
according to the tenth paragraph of third article of war 1 did not
neglect to seasonably clear my ship for action, and that I used my
utmost exertions to overtake, capture, or destroy the vessel, and that
I omitted no ordinary duty of an officer I can prove by the accompany-
ing statements of all the officers of the Oneida.
	The President recommended me by name for the thanks of Congress
as oiie of the commanding officers in the passage of the Forts Jackson
and St. Philip, and subsequent capture of New Orleans, though action
was not taken on it by Congress. He next, by the recommendation of
the advisory board, promotes me to the rank which had justly been
my due for six months previous, and now, on insufficient and incoin-
plete evidence, he directs that my name be stricken from the rolls of
the Navy, and a record of my disgrace placed upon every log book and
read to the assembled crews of every ship in commission. This is hard
usage, and small consideration for one who to-day completes his twenty.
seventh year of service.
	I have been most cruelly and unjustly treated, and I call upon you,
admiral, as my immediate commanding officer, to aid me in obtaining
justice.
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEORGE HENRY PREBLE,
Commander.
	Rear-Admiral D. G. FARRAGUT,
Commanding Western Gulf Blockading ~3quadron,
Flagship Hartford, Pensacola.


Z~etter from Rear-Admiral Earragut, U. S. Navy, commanding Western Gulf Blockading Squad-
ron, to G. H. Preble, late commander, U. S. Navy, relative to the dismissal of the latter from
the Navy.

FLAGSHIP HARTFORD,
Pensacola Bay, October 14, 1862.
	SIR: I have received your communication of the [8th] instant inform-
ing me of your dismissal. Permit me to assure you that no one has
been pained more at your dismissal than myself, although I felt it my
duty to report the facts of the case as submitted to me. I always lay
before the honorable Secretary the authority from which my facts are
derived, and therefore in your case enclosed your report, upon which
the Department acted, with my own, as I could know nothing more
than it did. I told you frankly all the fault I had to find with you
was not firing sooner; and to that and the bad firing I attributed the
escape of the Oreto, all of which you frankly admitted. I gave you
full credit for vigilance and promptitude, but only said I did not know
why you did not fire sooner; that was natural for me to say from my
anxiety for the capture, but I felt satisfied afterwards that it arose
from your desire to avoid an insult to England, and a confidence that
you could secure your chase if you were by him; the conclusion, how-
ever, showed that your gunnery proved too bad to do it. I am also
aware that you were not exactly responsible for the training of your
crew, as you had but recently taken command of the ship; still the
Oreto got in and it was my duty to report the facts, and you will find
that the Department acted upon your own statement and not on mine

Page 441

OPERATIONS OF THE ORUISERSIJNION.	441

	I will now notice one or two remarks in your letter. The apparent
neglect to which you allude in my letter, had no reference to you; it
was a quotation from a letter of the Departments to me referring to
the ram Arkansas catching us without steam. I think my letter
tended to convey the idea that although apparently neglect, it was not
such in reality.
	As to your efforts to capture or destroy her, I neither doubted them
nor said that I did; on the contrary I said that you all fired at her,
and all claimed to have hit her, but failed to capture or destroy her.
As to the remark of the captain of the Rachel Seaman, he did not
intend to reflect on you in the slightest degree, more than on himself.
He stated, and so did you, that there never was a finer opportunity for
taking a vessel, had you known her true character, and he too ascribed
the failure to bad firing mainly, for he said he struck her but once.
	In reference to your explanations to me, they were as promptly sent
to the Department as transmitted to me.
	You judge me rightly when you suppose I never intended to do you
such a lasting injury, and I trust and sincerely hope you will be as
able to satisfy the President as myself that you were at most only cul-
pable in hesitating between the risk of insulting a British vessel of
war and running the risk of allowing an enemy to escape. Our orders
are very stringent in both cases.
	I have thus endeavored to disabuse your mind as to the effect of my
report, or of any intentional reflection on your conduct, beyond which it
is not my province to go; but I will certainly always bear testimony to
your officer-like and gentlemanly deportment, the general efficiency and
good order of your vessel, and will further state that wherever you
erred I attributed it purely to an error of judgment. Such, however,
is military life; success is the standard by which we are judged; and
rest assured that I fully sympathize with you and your family in this
great mortification, as well for their own sake as for the reverence I
have always had for the character of your grandsires and my respect
for yourself.
Very respectfully, etc.,
	D. G. FARRAGTJT,
	[Commander G~Eo. II. PREBLE,	[Flag-Officer.]
U. S. S. Oneida.]



Letter from G. H. Preble, late commander, U. S. Navy, to the President of the United States,
requesting court of enquiry, and transmitting additional reports.
U.	S. STEAM SLOOP ONEIDA.

Off Mobile, October 10, 1862.
	SIR: I do not believe you would do intentional injustice to anyone,
yet you have done me the most cruel injustice, and dismissed me from
a service in which I have passed twenty-seven years of my life, with-
out trial, without a hearing, and on insufficient and incomplete evidence.
	You have assailed my honor, which is dearer to me than life, and you
have caused to be proclaimed that I failed to do my utmost to take and
capture a vessel of the enemy and omitted to perform the most ordinary
duty of an officer. This sentence and this opinion you have directed to
be read to the assembled crews of every vessel in the Navy and entered
upon the ships logs

Page 442

44~	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I can prove by every officer and man on board this ship, or who was
present on the occasion referred to, that I did do my utmost to over-
take, captnre, or destroy the Oreto at the time referred to, and that,
omitting no duty, I performed my whole entire duty energetically and
faithfully, as I have ever done while in the service. I demand, therefore,
a fair and full and instant investigation of all the circunistances before
a court of enquiry; and when acquitted, that my innocence shall be pro-
claimed in the same manner as the sentence of dismissal has been pro-
mulgated, and that the record of my disgrace shall, by official order, be
expunged from the log books of the Navy.
	As the Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy, I ask of you this
justice, which I am sure you will grant.
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEO. HENRY PREELE,
Commander.
The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

	I enclose the statements of the executive officer, chief engineer, and
lieutenant ~F. S. Brown], the three principal officers of this vessel. I
have in my possession similar statements from every officer on board.
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEO. HENRY PREBLE,
Commander.
tEuclosures 1

Report of Lieutenant-Commander Sicard, U. S. Navy, U. S. S. Oneida, of circumstances

attending escape of C. S. S. Florida (Oreto) into Mobile Bay, Alabama.
U. S. S. ONEIDA,
Off Mobile, October 8, 1862.
	SIR: The following is a statement, to the best of my recollection, of
what occurred during the chase of the Oreto off this port, September
4, 1862:
	At 5 oclock p. m. I was called to get the ship underway in chase of
a steamer standing toward the blockading force from the eastward.
As we were getting underway the stranger was distant about 6 or 7
miles, using bituminous coal. As we stood toward him we furled awn-
ings and went to quarters.
	The Oneida was steered for the port bow of the stranger, who, when
he got within about half a mile, hoisted the English red ensign and
pennant, and when near put his helm aport, sheering gradually in
shore. The Oneidas helm was put a starboard and she followed closely
on the strangers port bow. I think that at this time, the vessels being
distant about 150 yards, by your order a 30-pounder rifled shot was
fired across the strangers bows.
	When both vessels had sheered in shore some distance, the stranger
put his helm astarboard gradually, when, the Oneidas helm being also
astarboard, the two vessels about abeam of each other stood to the
westward. About this time (or it may have been a little previous) you
hailed the stranger, then distant about 100 yards, but I did not hear
any answer. After the first shot, two others were fired across his bows
at very short intervals. Very quickly after the third shot across his
bows you gave the order to fire into him, and the XI[-inch] guns at once
commenced and sustained their fire when they could be brought to
bear, or when the thick curtain of smoke (which soon accumulated
between the two vessels) lifted so as to allow a view of the chase. Th

Page 443

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	443

chase hauled down the English flag, and hoisted no other, but whether
the flag was struck before or after we fired at him, I do riot remember,
bnt at all events it was very near the time of commencement of onr
XJ-inch fire. We had fired but a few shots, when the chase loosed and
partly sheeted home his topsail and topgallant sail (fore). These did
not help him materially; but he steamed very fast and drew so much
ahead of us soon that we were compelled to yaw in order to discharge
the XI[-inch] guns. We steamed after him, but I do not think that
any time we went much over 6 knots, as we had steam up on but one
boiler.
	The stranger crossed the end of the shoals, and got into the channel
leading into Mobile Bay. We followed him into about 3 fathoms of
water, when, as it was getting dusk and we were unacquainted with
the bar, we were obliged to give up the chase. Up to the time of his
hauling down his flag it was my opinion that the stranger was a large
English gunboat.
	To the questions proposed by you under date of October 9 1 return
the following answers:
	1. The ship was prepared for action in seasomi, and when the char-
acter of the chase became apparent you did your utmost to capture or
destroy her.
	2. I do not know what duty is referred to (as being the plainest and
most ordinary committed to an officer) in your second question.
	3. You did, as far as my observation or recollection goes, display
zeal, energy, and anxiety in pursuit of the chase. I was on the bridge
mostly, and you were most of the time on the poop, where you had the
best view of the chase that could be obtained.
	4. I can not suggest any precaution that occurred to me at the time
as having been omitted.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
M.	SICARD,
Lieutenant- Commander.
	Commander GEO. II. PREBLE,
U. S. S. Oneida.


Report of Lieutenant Brown, U. S. Navy, U. S. S. Oneida, of cireumstance8 attending
the e8eape of C. S. S. Florida (Oreto) into Mobile Bay, Alabama.

U.	S. S. ONEIDA
Off Mobile Bay, October 8, 1862.
	Sin: In compliance with your request I respectfully submit the fol-
lowing statement of what 1 remember of the chase which terminated
in the entr&#38; nce into Mobile Bay by the rebel gunboat Oreto, on the
evenin of e 4th of September.
	Upon going on deck when the ship was getting under way at about
half past 5 p. in., I saw a steamer to the southward and eastward burn-
ing bituminous coal and standing for us.
	As soon as our anchor was aweigh we bore up for the stranger, the
engineer on watch having orders to go ahead fast. The order for
greater speed was frequently given but not obeyed, because a sufficient
pressure of steam could not be kept up.
	On nearing the stranger I thought him to be an English gunboat
from his resemblance in every respect to that class of vessels, as well
as from the fact that he carried the English ensign and pennant. When
within about 300 yards he bore up gradually for the shore, attemptin

Page 444

444	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

to cross our bows from starboard to port, when three shots from our
pivot rifle on the forecastle were fired across his bows at short infervals,
but without effect. About this time you hailed the stranger and
received no reply. We kept our guns to bear on him by keeping away
with starboard helm and training sharp on the bow. Our shot being
unheeded you issued the order to fire into him, which was iminedi-
ately done by both XJ-inch pivot guns. He then hauled down the Eng-
lish ensign and trained his guns on us, but I do not think he fired. At
about the same time he let fall his fore-topsail and topgallant sail.
Our fire was kept up as rapidly as possible during the remainder of the
chase. The strangers speed being much greater than ours he soon
ranged ahead and rapidly increased the distance between us. In
order to avoid running ashore we now with port helm brought the
stranger to bear on our port bow and manned the port battery, keeping
up the fire with the forecastle pivot rifle. Finding we had but 3
fathoms water and the landmarks being rendered invisible by the
darkness we abandoned the chase at about half past 6 p. in., hav-
ing continued the chase about half an hour after opening fire. During
most of this time the stranger was directly to leeward, and we were
obliged to hold our fire till the smoke from our guns cleared away suf-
ficiently for us to see and bring the guns to bear upon him.
	When we hauled off he was scarcely distinguishable, and was close
under the gnus of Fort Morgan, in the channel leading up the bay.
The gunboat Winona and the schooner Rachel Seaman assisted in the
chase, but being engaged working the guns of my division I did not
notice their movements, except that they opened fire immediately after
we did.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
F. S. BROWN,
Lieutenant, U. S. Nary.
	Commander GEO. II. PREBLE, U. S. Navy,
U.	S. S. Oneida.

	[P. 5.3In reply to your questions I will add:
	1. The crew were at quarters and the ship cleared for action in ample
season, and when the character of the chase became apparent you did,
in my opinion, do your utmost to overtake, capture, or destroy her.
	2. I know of no duty committed to a commanding officer that you
omitted on that occasion.
	3. So far as I observed, you did exhibit energy, zeal, and anxiety in
the pursuit to overtake and capture the chase.
	4. I can not suggest any precautions that were omitted.
Very respectfully, etc.,
F.~. BROWN.


Report of Chief Engineer Dade, U. S. Navy, U. S. S. Oneida, of circumstances attend-
ing escape of C. S. S. Florida (Oreto) into iliobile Bay, Alabama.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP ONEIDA,
Off Mobile, October 9, 1862.
	SIR: In compliance with your request I make the following state-
ment:
	On the morning of September 4, with your permission I hauled
the fires of the port boiler of this ship, for the purpose of stopping a
leak in one of the tubes, which was so large as to necessitate the almos

Page 445

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	445

constant use of the donkey pump when the engines were not in motion.
The fires were kept banked with a full pressure of steam in the star-
board boiler. I succeeded in doing the necessary work, and got a
working pressure of steam on the port boiler by 7:30 p. m.
	At 5:30 p. in. the ship was got under way with oue boiler, and chased
the Confederate gunboat Oreto, but necessarily at much less than our
usual speed. At 0:27 the chase was abandoned, the water becoming
too shoal to continue it.
	Under the most favorable circumstances this ship makes l0~ knots,
under steam alone, with 66 revolutions of engines per minute. A
greater velocity can not be maintained owing to the very imperfect
vacuum which obtains in the condenser, a defect which has always
existed, notwithstanding that many expedients have been tried to
remedy it.
	In my opinion you cleared your ship for action in the promptest man-
ner, and exhibited the greatest energy, zeal, and anxiety to overtake
and capture the chase.
Jam, respectfully,
F.	C. DADE,
Chief Engineer.
	Commander GEO. II. PREBLE,
Commanding U. S. S. Oneida.


Letter from G. H. Preble, late commander, U. S. Navy, to the Secretary of the Navy, acknowl-
edging receipt of his dismissal from the U. S. Navy.


U.	S. STEAM SLOOP ONEIDA,
Off Mobile, October 12, 1862.
	SIR: I have received my dismissal from the Navy officially nuder
your signature. I have no comments to make, and have given over the
command of this vessel, until the arrival of her appointed commander,
to Lieutenant-Commander Sicard, an officer every way worthy of the
confidence of the Department. The admiral forwards me my dismissal,
but without letter or remark, and I have no letter from him on the
subject of the Oreto except one of four or five lines, in which he thinks
I should have fired my second shot into her instead of ahead of her,
not knowing at the time that only three minutes elapsed between the
first shot ahead and the fourth shot, aimed at and ordered into her.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEORGE HENRY PREBLE.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Letter from G. H. Preble, late commander, U. S. Navy, to the Secretary of the Navy, trans.-
mitting reports of officers of the U. S. S. Oneida, relative to the escape of the 0. S. S.
Florida (Oreto).

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP ONEIDA,
Off Mobile, October 12, 1862.
	SIR: Herewith I forward to the Navy Department a duplicate of
my full reports of the chase of the Oreto, alias Florida, this day for-
warded by me to Rear-Admiral Farragut.
	The accompanying statements from every officer who was at the tim

Page 446

446	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

attached to the Oneida I have not had time to have duplicated. Doubt-
less Rear-Admiral Farragut will forward them, as I fully believe [he]
exonerates me from all blame, and is as much surprised at the hasty
action of the President and Department as I am, though I have received
no communication from him.
	When at Pensacola not long since he told me in conversation that
he had written the Department that he did not see any blame could be
attached to me for the escape of the Oreto, but that it was owing (I
quote his words) to damned bad shootimig. I can safely say her
escape was mainly due to her superior speed and the want of steam on
this vessel, which my report will show you was run down [from] 24
pounds to 14 in the chase.
Yery respectfully,
GEO. HENRY PREBLE,
Commander.
SECRETARY OF THE NAVY,
Washington, D. C.

[Enclosures.]


Ileport of Surgeon Taylor, U. S. Navy, U. S. S. Oneida, regarding the escape of C. S. S.
Florida (Oreto).

U.	S. S. ONEIDA,
Off Mobile, Ala., October 9, 1862.
	SIR: In reply to your request I have to state such of the circum-
stances as came under my observation attending the chase of the rebel
steamer Oreto (or Orieto) by this vessel on the evening of September
4, ultimo.
	Having nothing at once to employ me in my own department beyond
being prepared for action, I remained on the quarter-deck deeply
interested in the events that were transpiring.
	Immediately upon a strange sail being reported, the Oneida got
underway at 5:30 p. m. and stood seaward in his direction, beating to
quarters soon afterwards. The gunboat Winona, our only consort on
this blockade at the time, was also ordered by you to chase at discre-
tion and came up on our starboard beam. The Winona had but just
returned from chasing to the westward a schooner which proved to be
the Rachel Seaman. All these movements were made with prompt-
itude, and this ship was cleared for action long before she was within
gunshot of the stranger.
	The latter, steering directly for the entrance to the harbor, was soon
near enough to show himself to be a barkentine-rigged propeller with
topgallant yards crossed, bearing the English ensign at the peak,
apparently deeply laden, and mounting several guns; altogether having
the appearance of a British gunboat.
	The Oneida was not making a high rate of speed on account of using
only one boiler. The other was undergoing some necessary and ahuost
completed repairs. But as the strange steamer approached, our course
was altered a little so as to cross his bows; a maneuver which the
Winona not imitating, fell a considerable way astern of him.
	When within probably one-fourth of a mile a shot was fired to bring
him to, and when still nearer he was hailed by yourself and another
shot fired across his bows, none of which elicited any attention what-
ever. It was observed that there were very few men visible about his
decks

Page 447

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	447

	The two ships were now near to each other. The stranger appeared
to swerve a little from his course, it may be to avoid collision, an event
which, had both held on, seemed not at all improbable. The Oneida
then put her helm starboard, thus bringing the two vessels nearly al)eam
of each other, and this was truly the critical moment for the Oreto.
As she continued to pass us with undiminished speed, her real inten-
tion began to be evident; another shot was fired very near, and imme-
diately by your order the starboard broadside opened upon her.
The eiiemy at once hauled down the English colors and commenced
training his guns upon us, though he did not fire at that time, but soon
after attempted to make sail.
	From the instant the true character of the disguised steamer became
known to you, the fire of this vessel, as well as that of the Winona,
was unremittingly kept up, until darkness and distance and the prox-
imity of shoal water put an end to the chase.
	When at the space of perhaps 1,000 or 1,500 yards and nearly under
the guns of Fort Morgan, the rebel vessel fired a shot, and after some
interval another, both of which passed away harmlessly.
	The schooner Rachel Seaman was a distant spectator of all this scene
and fired aJew guns in the direction of the Oreto.
	I cheerfully bear witness, sir, that on this occasioii, so far as my
knowledge extends of such matters, you did your utmost to capture
or destroy this vessel of the enemy from the moment you recognized
her as such, and that the ship was cleared for action in due time;
neither did you in any manner whatever manifest a want of energy or
zeal in your official acts.
	Of course it is easy to see now, when we are in possession of all the
facts, how this affair might have been made to terminate in another
way; but how shall any one say conscientiously that under precisely
similar circumstances he would have acted differently l And what man
might not hesitate one moment only when his next step may do a
grievous and irreparable injury to the flag and honor of a nation with
whom we are yet, at least ostensibly, at peace l
	In relation to the third and last question contained in your note of
this morning, it only remains for me to say, that what the plainest
and most ordinary duties committed to an ~ are I do not know.
	In conclusion, sir, I beg leave to express to you my sincere regret at
an event which has rendered necessary this communication.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOHN V. TAYLOR,

Commander GEO. H. PREBLE, U. S. Navy, Surgeon, U. S. S. Onedia.
Gommanding U. S. S. Oneida, Off Mobile, Ala.



Report of Paymaster Biassler, U. S. Navy, U. S. S. Oneida, regarding the escape of C. S.
S. Florida (Oreto).

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP ONEIDA,
Off Mobile, October 9, 1862.
	SIR: In compliance with the request contained in your note of this
date I would make the following statement of the circumstances so far
as my knowledge extends attending the chase of the Oreto by this ship
on the afternoon and evening of September 4.
	I think it was about half past 5 oclock that I heard of a sail being
reported to the eastward, and shortly after going on deck saw blac

Page 448

448	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

smoke in that direction, which was steadily approaching us. We soon
got underway and steamed, slowly, however, directly toward the stran-
ger.
	That the crew were at quarters some time before we came up to the
Oreto I can affirm, as I did not leave the poop till after the rattle had
been sprung, delaying there a few minutes longer, expecting that the
approaching English gunboat would heave to on our first fire, but as
she did not, I went below 111)011 the second firing of the forecastle gun,
and am therefore unable to give an account of the action that followed.
	IDuring the morning 1 had heard that the fires had been hauled from
under one of our boilers to allow of necessary repairs to the tubes, some
of which had become entirely corroded, iron being used in their mann.-
facture instead of composition. I heard the order given to lay the fires
about half past 2.
	I do not think more than four shots had beemi fired when, being in
the ward room, I heard you on deck give the order several times to go
ahead faster, and on going out into the steerage country euquired what
was the matter, when one of the engineers told me the engines were
doing the best the steam would then allow, owing to the recent repairs
to one of the boilers. Thus our want of steam, caused by a mistaken
idea of economy, in using iron pipes in the boilers of this ship, may
have been the real and only cause that prevented us from keeping up
with and overtaking the Oreto, and finally capturing or destroying the
enemy. Soon I noticed, hearing the increased distance given for firing,
that the Oreto was rapidly leaving us. I noticed also that the whole
of our starboard battery was discharged at once, because, as I after-
wards heard, the smoke of our guns was blown so as to hide the chase
and prevent accurate aim. When I went on deck we were in about 3
fathoms water, as I heard from the leadsman; was quite under cover
of the guns of Fort Morgan.
	Iquotefromyournote: Didyouperceiveanywantofenergy,zeal,
or vigilance on my part ~ No, sir; on the contrary, the energy and
zeal with which you began the action, and, as far las] my observation
extended, continued it, will always be remembered by me. Of vigilance
there certainly was no neglect, for the Winona would doubtless have
been at her station to the eastward had not your vigilance seut her to
chase a schooner to the westwarda schooner that did not display any
flag during the chase by the Winona, nor, I hear, afterwards during the
action. This was the Rachel Seaman.
	Had there been more vessels under your command, I feel assured one
would have been then stationed to the eastward of the fort, as you had
previously ordered. It seems strange that the Oneida and the Winona
were the only vessels here at that special time to guard this important
port, while both before and since as many as six have been on the sta-
tion at oncethe others then undergoing repairs at Pensacola.
	That the ship was cleared for action and the crew at quarters I have
stated above, and that you did not fail to do your utmost to overtake,
capture, or destroy the vessel we were pursuing, was evident to myself;
who heard your repeated orders for quicker firing and cautions to
greater accuracy of aim, as well as those to the engineers.
	I again quote your note: What duty the plainest and most ordinary
committed to an officer, did I omit on that occasion ? I have carefully
read the act approved July 17, 1862, articles 1 and 2, and paragraphs
9 and 10 of article 3, which relate to commanders of vessels ,and can
not imagine any duty there enumerated which you failed to perform on
that occasion. You advanced toward the stranger with your crew a

Page 449

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	449

quarters; you gave battle; you chased him and endeavored to overtake
and capture or destroy that vessel of the enemy, which it was yonr duty
to encounter.
	Hoping you will excuse the seeming freedom with which this is
written,
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
C.	W. HASSLER,
	Commander GEO. II. PREBLE,
	U. ~. ~i. Oneida.	Paymaster.


Report of Acting Master Green, U. S. Navy, U. S. S. Oneida, regarding the escape of
C. S. S. Florida (Oreto).
U.	S. STEAM SLOOP ONBIPA

Off Mobile, October 10, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the 9th instant, requesting a statement of the chase of the rebel steamer
Oreto by this ship on the 4th ultimo, and also answers to several ques~
tions concerning that affair.
	The steamer was first seen about 5 p. in., bearing about S. to S. E.
by S., and upon black smoke being seen from her the order was given
to spread the fires and call all hands up anchor. The anchor being
up, this ship steamed out toward the strange sail, the awnings being
furled, decks cleared, and crew called to quarters in ample time for any
emergency.
	The stranger stood on about N. W., and as we neared him our helm
was apparently put to starboard so as not to shoot past him, but to
range up alongside. I say apparently, because as I was stationed upon
the forecastle I could hear no orders which were given from the after-
part of the ship.
	While we were turning I was ordered by the first lieutenant from the
bridge to throw a shot across the strangers bows from the pivot rifle.
I obeyed, and, reloading instantly, was ordered to repeat the shot,
which I did, and was then ordered to fire close across his forefoot,
which shot I aimed and fired myself, the shot striking close under his
bows. The order was then given to fire into the stranger and the fire
was kept up as long as there was the least chance of hitting him. But
for his superior speed, which enabled him to draw ahead of us, nothing
could have saved him from capture and destruction.
	The resemblance to a regular English gunboat was perfect, and I
must confess that until the Oreto was close to us I felt sure that the
stranger was one of the numerous English men-ofwar which I have
seen inspecting the blockade duriiig the last fifteen months.
	The first three of your questions, sir, I believe I have answered in
the above remarks. With regard to the fourth, I can only say that I
hoped that the second shot would have been fired into the stranger,
even had he proved afterwards to be an English man-of-war.
	Hoping, sir, that the apparently hasty manner in which your case
has been treated may be reconsidered, and that we may soon welcome
you to command this ship again,
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
FRANCIS M. GREEN,
Acting Master, U. i~i. Navy.
	Commander GEORGE II. PREELE, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Oneida.
123A2

Page 450

450	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Acting Master Edwards, U. S. Navy, U. S. S. Oneida, of the escape of C. S. S.
Florida (Oreto).

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP ONEIDA,
Off Mobile, October 9, 1862.
	Sin: In compliance with your request I make the following state-
ment, as far as my knowledge extends, relating to circumstances attend-
ing the chase of the rebel gunboat Oreto by this ship: On the evening
of September 4, near 5 p. in., I heard the masthead lookout report a sail
bearing about S. E. Made her out to be a steamer making a black
smoke. The Winona was immediately signaled to chase strange
steamer, which she did.
	The order was then given by you to get underway. At 5:30 p. m.
we got underway and stood towards strange steamer, which at that
time had every appearauct in hull and rig of being an English gunboat,
steadily approaching us. As soon as we were underway the order was
given by you to beat to quarters and clear the ship for action. At 5:45
p. m. the stranger approached near enough to make him out distinctly
to be a barkentine-rigged vessel flying an English pennant and ensign.
At 6 we came within about one-quarter of a mile of her and fired one
shot across her bow. She paid no attention to it; hailed her, and fired
two more across her bow, receiving no answer. We then fired into
her, she hauling down her colors and set her fore-topsail and fore-
topgallant sail. The order was then given to starboard our helm for
the purpose of bringing the ship in position, that our guns might be
trained upon her, as she was much faster than this ship and soon
steamed ahead of us, we having steam in one boiler only, finding it nec-
essary to repair the other. I heard your orders repeatedly given to go
ahead faster. We continued the chase and fired upon her until she
was under the protection of the gnus of Fort Morgan. At about 6:30
p. in., it being too dark to see the objects on shore and in 3 fathoms
water, ceased firing and hauled off.
	In my opinion your ship was prepared and cleared for action in the
promptest manner, and under the circumstances you left nothing
undone that could have been done, and I have every reason to believe
you did your utmost to take, capture, and destroy the vessel you were
in pursuit of. There is no duty that I could see at the time that you
omitted, and you showed the greatest euergy, zeal, and anxiety to over-
take and capture the chase.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
THOMAS EDWARDS,
Acting Master, U. S. Navy.
Commander GEO. HENRY PREBLE,
U. S. Steam Sloop Oneida.


Report of Acting Master Ross, U. S. Navy, U. S. S. Oneida, regarding the escape of the
C. S. S. Florida (Oreto).

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP ONEIDA,
Off Mobile, October 9, 1862.
	SIR:	In compliance with your request, I make the following state-
ment:
	On September 4 at 5 p. m. the masthead lookout reported a sail to
the southeast. You gave orders to get underway and stand toward
her; immediately after getting underway, cleared for action. As w

Page 451

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
451

neared the stranger I saw she nad the English ensign and pennant fly-
ing, and from her build and spars supposed her to be an English gun-
boat. When about a mile from her you gave orders to go to quarters.
I repaired to my station on the berth deck and got everything ready
for battle. 1 then went up to the fore-hatch ladder to see if the men
were in their stations to receive ammunition on the spar deck, and saw
the stranger about 2 cables lengths from us and 2 points forward our
starboard beani. You gave orders to starboard our helm as he was
crossing our bows, which brought him more abeam. You then gave
orders to fire a shot across his bows from the forecastle gnn; this and
another being fired, and the starboard battery with both pivot guns
(XI-inch) trained on the stranger, 1 went below.
	I heard in all 3 guns from the forecastle, and then the order to fire into
her. The firing was continued for half an hour, when I received orders
to close the magazine and shell room. After doing so I went on deck
and saw the strange steamer under the protection of the guns of Fort
Morgan, aiid that we had chased her within the range of the fort. As
we were in shoal water, and it being too dark to distinguish land
objects, we had hauled off for an anchorage.
	I consider you did all that could have been done to capture the
steamer after discovering she was an enemy.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, ELIJAH Ross,
	Commander GEO. II. PREBLE,	Acting Master.
U.	S. Steam Sloop Oneida.



Ileport of Captain8 Clerk Dalton, U. S. S. Oneida, regarding the escape of the C. S. S.
	-	Florida (Oreto).

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP ONEIDA,
Off Mobile, October 10, 1862.
	SIR: Agreeably to your request I make the following statement of my
knowledge of the circumstances attending the chase of the Oreto, on
the occasion of her running the blockade into Mobile Bay on the 4th
ultimo. The time given is according to the deck timepiece.
	It was 5:05 p. m. that she hove in sight. The Winona being under-
way, having just then spoken the Rachel Seaman, you directed me to
make signal to the Winona to chase at discretion, which I did, she
answering it at 5:15 p. m. At 5:30 we got underway, the stranger
then being distant, I should think, about 6 or ~ miles. Seeing that she
wore the English ensign and pennant, the ship was, by your order,
cleared for action, and at 5:45 p. m. all hands were at quarters.
	We neared the stranger, and when within speaking distance you
hailed him from the poop, but receiving no answer you ordered a shot
to be fired across his bows, which was done, followed by two others in
rapid succession. This was at 6 oclock, and at 6:03 the stranger not
heeding the shots across his bows, you gave orders to fire into ~
which was instantly commenced by the XI-inch guns, followed by fore-
castle pivot rifle and the starboard battery. At 6:05 the English flag
was hauled down, but, his engines still working, you directed the firing
to be continued. At 6:10 he attempted to make sail, but only partially
succeeded

Page 452

452	OPERATIONS OF TILE CRUISERSUNION.

	Tlie firing continued unabated until 6:27 p. in., when it ceased, the
rebel, being so much faster than this vessel, having succeeded in getting
into the main channel leading into the bay.
	I was on the poop with you most of the time, being sent by you sev-
eral times to the engiue room to enquire if we could not increase our
speed, each time receiving the answer from the engineer on watch that
they could go no faster.
	When we had rounded to and abandoned the chase, you called to the
first lieutenant and asked if there was no way in which we could get
in and catch that fellow, exhibiting the utmost anxiety to capture or
destroy him
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	FR~Nii DALTON
Cart~~ins ~lerk,
	Commander GEG. HENRY PREBLE,
U. ~3. AS~team A3lOOp Oneida.



Joint 8tatement of assistant engifleer8, U. S. S. Oneida, regarding the escape of the O~ S. S.
Florida (Oreto).

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP ONEIDA,
Off Mobile Bay, October 10, 1862.
	SIR: On the 4th of September last, when the steamer Oreto ran in
Mobile Bay, the chances for her capture were most unfavorable. We
had during the day been repairing one of our boilers, and bad started
fires under it only a short time previous to the steamer making her
appearance. The boilers had not sufficient time to generate steam.
We were therefore deprived of half our power and compelled to con-
fine our speed to a much smaller limit than our maximum. Had the
affair occurred an hour later the result would have been different.
	Your energy as displayed on that occasion could certainly not have
been questioned by those who were familiar with the circumstances.
Everything was done that could have been done to defeat her inten-
tions, and no exertion was left untried to prevent her entering.
	The escape of the Oreto could not, in our opinion, have been justly
attributed to any dereliction of duty on your part, whilst the existing
circumstances were so favorable to her.
	Hoping the affair may be reviewed in its proper light, and you
absolved from all blame or censure,
We remain, your obedient servants,
JAS. II. MORRISON,
Second Assistant Engineer.
HORACE MCMURTRIE,
Second Assistant Engineer.
H.	II. FITCH
Second Assistant Engineer.
WM. D. MCJLVAINE,
Third Assistant Engineer.
ALFRED S. BROWER,
Third Assistant Engineer.
	[Commander G. H. PREBLE,
Commanding U. S. S. Oneida.

Page 453

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	453

Report of Jllid8hipman Naile, U. S. Navy, U. S. S. Oneida, regarding the e8caj~e of the
C. S. S. Florida (Oreto).

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP ONEIDA,
Off Mobile, October 9, 18G2.
	Sin: In compliance with your request, I make the following state-
ment in regard to the Oreto:
	I was officer of the deck on the afternoon of September 4 at the
time the Oreto ran the blockade. At 5:05 a steamer was reported
bearing S. E. byE., making black smoke and standing toward us. The
Winona was then returning from the southward and westward from
chasing U. S. schooner Rachel Seaman. Signaled her to chase the
steamer at discretion. When first seen, was hull down, about 10 miles
off, and was reported by the masthead lookout to be the &#38; squehanna
and supposed by us to be the Connecticut. At 5:30 got underway and
stood toward her. She was then distant about 7 miles. At 5:45 went
to quarters; discerned her to be a barkentine-rigged steamer flying
English pennant and ensign and having every appearance of being an
English gunboat, which everyone on board supposed her to be. At 6
fired a shot across her bows; she paid no attention to it; hailed her
and fired two more. 1~eceiving no reply, we fired into her. She trained
her guns onto us, but did not fire. Continued the chase until 6:30,
when, being in shoal water and too dark to distinguish objects onshore,
ceased firing and hauled off.
	The Winona, after answering our signal, stood so as to come up astern
of the strange steamer and kept that position during the chase. She,
as well as the Rachel Seaman, opened fire on the steamer immediately
after we did.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	FRED. J. NAILE
	Commander G. II. PREBLE,	Mid8hipman.
U. S. S. Oneida.



Report of Midshipman Wood, U. S. Navy, U. S. S. Oneida, regarding the escape of the
C. S. S. Florida (Oreto).

U.	S. SLOOP OF WAR ONEIDA,
Off Mobile Bay, October 9, 1862.
	SIn: In compliance with your request, I make the following statement
of all that I can recollect as having come under my observation during
the chase of the rebel gunboat Oreto into Mobile Bay on the evening of
September 4:
	At about 5:30 heard all hands called to quarters, went to my station
on deck, found Oneida standing toward a strange steamer bearing to
the eastward of us, making black smoke, and distant about 5 miles.
At about 6 made stranger out to be a brigantine flying English ensign
and pennant, and heading directly for us. She carried eight broadside
and one or two pivot guns; looked exactly like English gunboats that
I have seen along our coast. When she came within rifle range fired a
shot across her bow, but she continued on her course, paying no atten-
tion to it; fired a shot across her forefoot, but without heaving her to;
fired a second shot across her forefoot, but with the same result as
before. She was now within hailing distance. Captain Preble hailed
her, but receiving no answer he gave orders to fire into her, which wa

Page 454

454	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

done by all the starboard battery and by both XI-inch guns. The
enemy then hauled down his colors, put his helm aport, and tried to
run away from us. At this time we were standing directly across his
bow, so we put our helm aport and followed him. But he gained on
us so rapidly that in less than fifteen minutes we increased our eleva-
tion from 400 to 1,500 yards. Captain Preble gave orders to go ahead
as fast as possible; heard answer returned from engine room that we
were doing our best. It was now getting dark, the enemy was under
the guns of Fort Morgan, the Oneida was in 3~ fathoms water, she had
no pilot, and the chase was therefore given up. Every preparation had
been made for battle before the enemy was within 3 or 4 miles of us,
and every effort was made to destroy him from the moment his true
character became known. I will here state that in firing the after
XI-inch gun the ship rolled so heavily and with such a quick, rapid
motion that it was almost impossible to take anything like accurate
aim. Besides, from the time we fired our first broadside the Oreto was
so completely enveloped in smoke that we could only judge of her posi-
tion by the black smoke which she made.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEO. W. WooD,
Midshipman.
Commander GEG. II. PREBLE,
U.	S. Sloop of War Oneida.


Report of Acting Boat8wain Herold, U. S. Navy, U. S. S. Oneida, regarding the escape of
C. S. S. Florida (Oreto).

U. S. S. ONEIDA,
Off Mobile, October 8, 1862.
	On the 4th of September, 1862, between the hours of 4 and 5 p. m.~
a sail was reported from the masthead, said by the lookout to be the
U. S. S. Susquehanna. We immediately got underway and stood for
her, and called all hands to quarters. I then went to the masthead,
that being my station at quarters, when on looking at the sail through
the glass I preceived she was a steamer, flying English colors, and I
took her to be a man-of-war. We stood on until we got within range
of her, when we fired a shot from the 30-pounder pivot rifle gun across
her bows. Previous to this I could plainly see about 20 or 30 men on
her deck, but after we fired the first shot all but two or three went
below, which could not be seen from our deck; she then ran across our
bows, at which time I saw only one man forward, one running aft, and
one at the wheel. Our captain then hailed her, but received no
answer, and we then fired two more shots across her bows, when she
hauled down the English flag. This at first I took to be done in token
of her surrender, but immediately afterwards I saw a number of men
come up irom below and go forward, I thought for the purpose of man-
ning the pivot gun, but they went aloft and loosed the fore-topsail and
topgallant sail which were then set.
	The steamer carried six broadside guns and one 10-inch pivot gun
forward, to the best of my knowledge. While they were loosing the
sails we fired into her and kept up a continuous fire until she got out
of our range. Several of our shot struck her, though she did not
for a moment slacken her speed. Finding that she continued to gain
on us rapidly, and as we were now very close to the ruined light-hous

Page 455

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	455

on Sand Island, it being now dark, we wore round and returned to the
anchorage.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAMES HEROLD,
Acting Boatswain.
	Commander GEG. II. PREBLE,
Commanding U. S. S. Oneida.


Report of Acting Gunner Parker, U. S. Navy, U. S. S. Oneida, regarding the escape of
the C. S. S. Florida (Oreto).

U. S. S. ONEIDA,
Off Mobile, October 9, 1862.
	At about 5 p. m. of September 4 a sail was reported coming from
southward and eastward, and by the lookout man said to be the U. S.
S. Susquehanna. She proved to be a screw steamer and was making
black smoke. We immediately got underway and stood for her and
then went to quarters. I repaired to the magazine, which, by the
orders of the officer of the division, I opened and passed up the ammu-
nition.
	We remained at quarters about an hour and twenty minutes, during
which time we fired the following projectiles, viz, 19 iDahlgren shells
and 3 Schenkl shells from the 30-pounder rifles; 10 5-second shells,
2 10-second shells, and 2 shrapnel from the XI-inch pivot, and 1 5-sec
ond shell from 32-pounder.
	After the retreat, having secured the magazine, I went on deek, and
it being dark I could see nothing of the stranger. We then returned
to the anchorage.
Very respectfully,
WILLIAM PARKER,
Acting Gunner.
	Commander GEO. II. PREIILE,
Commanding U. S. S. Oneida.



Letter from Bear-AdmiralFarragut, U. S. Navy, commanding Western Gulf Blockading Squadron
to the Secretary of the Navy, in behalf of G. H. Preble, late commander, U. S. Navy.


FLAGSHIP HARTFORD,
Pensacola Bay, ~Jctober 18, 1862.
	SIR: I regret that my statement of Commander Prebles case should
have drawn upon him such summary and severe punishment. That he
deserved some censure for his hesitation to act or fire is to me clear,
but when it is considered how desirous the Government has been to
avoid giving offense to foreign nations in enforcing our blockade, I feel
assured that Commander Prebles hesitation arose purely from that
cause.
	The Oreto was flying the English flag and pennant, and he feared
she might be a British man-ot-war, and having more confidence in the
gunnery of his crew than the result prove(l that they deserved, he lost
three minutes that were never to be regained, as every moment increased
the space between the vessels, and made it more difficult for Captain
Preble to bring his guns to bear without losing by yawing his vessel

Page 456

456	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	As the effect of all punishment is principally intended to prevent the
repetition of offenses rather than to punish the individual, I think there
can be but little doubt that this effect has in the present instance been
obtained upon the entire Navy, and I therefore hope that the Depart-
ment will grant Commander Preble a hearing before a court-martial or
court of enquiry, so as to enable him to show his country and his family
that he has not sullied the brilliant escutcheon of his grandsire by any
want of fidelity to his country.
	I sincerely trust that the President as well as yourself may be pre-
vailed upon to grant this favor to one who has served his country
faithfully with unblemished character up to the moment of this unfor-
tunate occurrence.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
D.	G. FARRAGUT,
Rear-Admiral, Commanding West Gulf Blockading Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy~


Letter of Rear-Admiral Farragut, U. S. Navy, commanding Western Gulf Blockading Squadron,
to G. H. Preble, late commander, U. S. Navy, expressing regret at the action of the Navy
Department in dismissing the latter from the service.

FLAGSHIP HARTFORD,
Pensacola Bay, October 28, 1862.
	SIR: I have received your communications of this date, and in reply
have to state that I thought I had answered all those questions in my
letter to you of [14th instant]. I therein stated that the neglect was
an apparent one, but that you had shown every vigilance by seeing the
vessel in time, and was alongside of her in time, and the only fault I
found with you was not firing at her sooner, which was caused no doubt
by your supposing her to be an English vessel of war, and I supposed
the hesitation of the three minutes, together with the bad firing, was
the cause of the loss of the prize. I have stated all these facts to the
honorable Secretary of the Navy, and asked him to allow you a court
of enquiry or court-martial to give you an opportunity of clearing your-
self from any other charge than that of a moments hesitation to fire
on a vessel which you supposed for the instant was or might be of a
friendly nation. I imputed nothing more to you in my letter to the
Department, and 1 have also informed it that you were not responsible
for the bad firing, as you had but recently taken command of the ves-
sel, but if there was any swell on I can readily understand that no one
could insure good firing from one of our gunboats, their motion being
so quick. Still, I see by the enemys report of the affair that they
say they were struck several times, had four men killed, and several
wonuded.
	In conclusion, I have to repeat my remark, that I have always found
you attentive and vigilant in the discharge of your duty since under
my command, and that I deeply regret that the Department has dealt
with you so severely, and still hope they will give you a hearing before
a proper tribunal.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
D.	G. FARRAGUT,
Rear-Admiral, Commanding Western Gulf Blockading Squadron.
GEORGE II. PREBLE,
U.	S. S. Rhode Island, Pensacola Bay

Page 457

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	457

Letter of Commander Thornton, U. S. Navy, to G. H. Preble, late commander, U. S. Navy,
stating extenuating circumstances in connection with the escape of C. S. S. Florida (Oreto),
in Mobile Bay, Alabama.


ASTOR HOUSE,
New York City, November 28, 1862.
	Mv DEAR SIR: I should have written to you before but my time
has been entirely occupied with the arrangement of my own affairs.
	In regard to the escape of the Ovetta [Oreto] and her success in
running the blockade, I have never heard but one opinion expressed
among our brother officers, and they all With one accord agree that it
was one of those unfortunate events which no human foresight could
prevent, and one which any and every officer is liable to experience on
similar service. I certainly was as mnch deceived in her character as
yourself, and I felt satisfied that she was an English man of-war desir-
ing to communicate with the blockading vessels.
	Her English build and rig, her English ensign and pennant, and her
boldness in approaching all served to convince inc that she was a
l3ritish cruiser. During the whole period of my service on the
blockade, the utmost vigilance was exercised by the different ves-
sels of the squadron under your command, and had we been informed
(it was known at Pensacola) that a rebel vessel of that description
was at sea, I have no doubt but that a different result might have been
attained, but the information caine decidedly too late.
	After her true character and design were discovered every effort was
made to capture or destroy her. That she was struck several times by
the fire of both vessels I was certain at the time, and the rebel
accounts assert that she was literally covered with our projectiles, and
that she lost four men killed and had a number wounded. There was
a heavy sea on at the time, which interfered materially with the accu-
racy of the fire of both the Oneida and Winona.
	The next morning after the chase I was sent in the Winona to Pen-
sacola for the purpose of communicating with the admiral. I took
with me your note communicating the event to the admiral, and I also
had instructions to explain in detail all the circumstances connected
with the escape of the Ovetta [Oreto]. This I did so far as I was myself
informed; but at that time I was not aware that one of the Oneidas
boilers was disabled, nor did I become aware of that fact until subse-
quently, when I met yon on board of the Rhode island at Pensacola.
When I reported to the admiral at Pensacola, he informed me that the
rebels had two vessels afloat, both of them answering generally to the
description I had given him of the chase. I returned immediately to
Mobile with that information and a letter from the admiral addressed
to yourself.
	I am certain that every effort that skill, zeal, and energy could
dictate was made to capture or destroy the Ovetta [Oreto] after her
designs became manifest, and I now know that the untimely accident
to one of the Oneidas boilers alone prevented her capture by that
vessel.
	I fully believe that the Department will rescind its hasty act of dis-
mission and grant you the customary court of enquiry before which
the evidence of your zeal and energy must appear conclusive.
Truly, your friend,
JAS. S. THORNTON.

	Commander GEO. II. PREBLE,
Cambridge, Mass

Page 458

458	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to the President of the United States, submitting the
late Commander Prebles case for consideration.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, February 10, 1863.
	SIR: The Hon. William P. Fessenden, of the Senate, has, on repeated
occasions, expressed a very earnest desire that the late Commander
George Henry Preble should be restored to the naval service. The
Naval Committee of the Senate have expressed similar views. Dis-
tinguished naval officers and others have also united in his behalf. I
therefore feel it a duty to submit his ease to you, and the papers and
testimonials relating thereto areherewith transmitted, in order that they
may be submitted to the Senate, should you deem proper to renom-
inate him to the Senate for further service. In September last the
name of Commander Preble was stricken from the roll of the Navy and
he was dismissed the service for omitting to capture the steamer
Oreto, which in open day passed the blockading force under his com-
niand and entered the harbor of Mobile. The dismissal took place on
his own report of the facts, forwarded by Admiral Farragut, his com-
manding officer on the Western Gulf Blockading Squadron.
	Commander Preble subsequently made two additional reports of the
occurrence, in neither of which did he succeed in relieving himself of
the delinquency or fault which led to his dismissal. Dissatisfied with
the action of the Government, Commander Preble procured certificates
from the officers associated with him on the Oneida, also from Admiral
Farragut and from others, and claiming he had done right, declaring
that under like circumstances he would again do as he had done on the
occasion of the escape of the Oreto, he and his friends urged a revoca-
tion of the order for his dismissal. Under the persistent declaration
that he had done right and his whole duty, together with the appeals
of sympathizing friends, his case, as stated and presented by himself
in his letters or reports, was submitted, without other testimony or
statement, to three highly intelligent naval officers, who, after delib-
eration, reported that he had failed to perform his whore duty as
senior officer of the force blockading Mobile, and, further, that he did
not do his utmost to prevent the passage of the steamer Oreto into the
harbor, as appears from the statement contained in his report of Sep-
tember 6 to Rear-Admiral Farragut, to the effect that if he had know
the character of the vessel he could have run her down.
	After this decision of the board of naval officers Commander Preble
acknowledged an error of judgment on his part in the escape of the
rebel steamer Oreto, and requested a restoration.
	The board of officers who passed npon his ease, in the belief that
the example already made has had its full effect in guarding against a
repetition of like negligence in future, and in sympathy with an officer
who they say was much respected and beloved for his estimable and
amiable qualities and for his unimpeachable character, have asked as
an act of grace and clemency that he might be restored to the naval
service.
	Admiral Farragut has indicated similar views, as have Senators and
others who are interested in his behalf, and who express their con-
viction that his restoration at this time would be no detriment to the
service.
	Although not fully satisfied that the period has arrived when~ if ever,
he should be restored, I am nuw illing to do Commander Preble or his
friends injustice or to commit or omit any act whereby the service
would be injured, especially through what might seem unnecessary and
continued severity

Page 459

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	459

	Commander Preble committed, as he reluctantly admits, an error of
judgment. It was committed while in the discharge of the most impor-
tant and responsible duties with which he was ever entrusted.
	He also exhibiteda want of mental resources by failing in that crit-
ical emergency to do his whole duty, whereby the service and the whole
country have suffered great injury, but it is due to him to say that
neither then nor at any time has his loyalty been questioned. He is
charged with no venal offense. For twenty-seven years he has been
an officer of the Navy, and if he has not been distinguished for vigor
he has borne an unblemished record.
	His fault was one that demanded prompt and decisive action, and in
advising his dismissal the Department perCormed an unpleasant but
imperative duty. Had the offense been the result of any other cause
than infirmity of judgment the highest penalty of the law might have
been inflicted. Less punishment than dismissal for such neglect, in
such a crisis, would not have been justifiable.
	Whether the example has already had its full effect, as suggested
by the distinguished naval officers who intercede in his behalf, and
whether the Navy would regard his restoration as an act of grace and
favor to itself, are matters on which there may be honest difference.
	While I am not prepared to recommend his restoration, I can not,
after the request of Senator Fessenden and the Naval Committee, audi
the appeal that had been made in his behalf by other friends, including
the admiral under whom he served and who first reported him as well
as the board who pronounced him delinquent, do otherwise than respect-
fully submit the case, with the papers, for your consideration and deci-
sion. The documents are herewith submitted with a view to their trans-
mission to the Senate, should you deem it proper to renominate Com-
mander Preble to his former position in the Navy.
I am, respectfully, etc.,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	The PRESIDENT.	Secretary of the Navy.
Letter from the President of the United States to the U. S. Senate, renominating George H

Preble as a commander in the U. S. Navy.

To THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES:

	On the 4th September, 1862, Commander George Henry Preble, U. S.
Navy, then senior officer in command of the naval force of the har-
bor of Mobile, was guilty of inexcusable neglect, in permitting the
armed steamer Oreto, in open daylight, to run the blockade. For his
omission to perform his whole duty on that occasion, and the injury
thereby inflicted on the service and the country, his name was stricken
from the list of naval officers and he was dismissed the service.
	Since his dismissal earnest application has been made for hia
restoration to his former position by Senators and naval officers, on
the ground that his fault [was] an error of judgment and that the.
example in his case has already had its effect in preventing a repeti-
tion of similar neglect.
	I therefore, on this application and representation, and in considera-
tion of his previous fair record, do hereby nominate George Henry
Preble to be a commander of the Navy, from the 16th of July, 1862, to
take rank on the active list next after Commander Edward Donald-
son and to fill a vacancy occasioned by the death of Commander J. M.
Wainwright.
WASHINGTON, I). C., February 12, 1363.	A. LINCOLN

Page 460

460
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
Extracts from testimony taken before a court of enquiry held April 20, 1872, convened to
investigate the circumstances attending the entrance of the rebel steamer Oreto [Florida]
into the port of Mobile, Alabama, on or about the 4th day of September, 1862.


TESTIMONY OF COMMANDER JAMES S. THORNTON, U. S. NAVY.
By the JUDGE-ADVOCATE:

	Question. Please state your name and rank.

	Answer. James S. Thornton, commander, U. S. Navy.

	Question. Where were you and in what capacity on the 4th day of
September, 1862?

Answer. Commanding U. S. steam gunboat Winona, off Mobile, on blockade duty.

	Question. Did you witi~ess the running of the blockade off Mobile by
the rebel privateer Oreto on that day? If yea, please give to the court
a narrative of that affair as witnessed by yourself.

	Answer. Yes; I was ordered to leave my station at the swash channel by signal
from the Oneida to chase to the westward. About midday or a little after noon I
spoke the Rachel Seaman. I signaled to the Oneida that the stranger was a friend.
I was then ordered by signal from the Oneida to chase at discretion. The lookouts
aloft, npon being hailed, discovered black smoke in the southeast board. I steered
for the black smoke and discovered it to be a steamer standing toward Mobile.
As I approached her she hoisted English ensign and pennant. I was at quarters,
guns cast loose. I ordered the first lieutenant to hail the vessel as I approached
him in passing. He did so, and received in reply, Her Britannic Majestys steamer
Spitfire (or Vixen, I forget which). The general appearance of the vessel (and I
examined her critically) seemed to accord with that class of vessel. I suffered her
to pass, as she was steering for the Oneida, which ship was coming out from her
anchorage off Mobile. I was fully nuder the impression that she was an English
man-of-war, desirous of communicating with the blocka~ing fleet, and was approach-
ing the Oneida, which vessel carried the commanding or senior officers pennant. I
turned and followed the Oreto and followed her in. She was going very rapidly,
and as she approached the Oneida I heard the report of a gun from the Oneida and saw
the Oneida turned in chase. I was satisfied at once that the vessel was endeavoring
to run the blockade, and ordered a shot fired into her. I thought at the time that
the shot struck her. I noticed that she altered her course, about 4 points, I should
judge, as though she intended to heave to. Her men were then sent aloft into the
rigging as though to loose sails, but the fire from the Oneida, musketry and heavy
guns, drove them down again. She almost immediately resumed her course and
pushed rapidly on for the entrance of the harbor. I followed the chase as closely as
possible, firing at her with the XI-inch guns several times, I dont remember how
many, until the lead gave soundings in 2t fathoms water, when I put the helm
astarboard and gave up the chase.

	Question. How far was the Oneida from the Oreto whell she first fired
at her?

	Answer. I could not tell, but within easy range.

	Question. What was their relative positions at the time of the first
fire?

	Answer. I should presume that the Oneida turned in chase of the Oreto, pursuing
the sante course and about abeam of each other, the Oreto, perhaps, a little abaft the
beam of the Oneida.

	Question. Before coming np with the Oneida, did the Oreto slacken
her speed at all?

	Answer. I should judge not; I could not tell. She was running very rapidly when
she passed me.

By the COURT:
	Question. What was the distance of the Winona from the strange sail
~when you passed him, and what was the bearing and distance of the
Oneida at that time

Page 461

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	461

	Answer. We passed within easy hailing distance, 30 or 40 yards. The Oneida was
distant from me about a mile or less, and she bore in the direction of the entrance
to the harbor of Mobile, abont north.

	Question. Did you give any order to the strange sail, or make any
signal to the Oneida at the time, or at any time after hailing her?

	Answer. No. She passed so rapidly, I gave no order. I was surprised at her
apparent want of courtesy in not slowing down as I approached her. I did not
make any signal to the Oneida.

	Question. What time elapsed after you hailed the strange sail until
she came within hailing distance of the Oneida?
	Answer. About five minutes.

	Question. Please state what other vessel or vessels were present on
the occasion to which you testify, and what part they took, if any, in
endeavoring to intercept the strange sail.

	Answer. I did not observe any other vessel at the time, but I now know that
the Rachel Seaman was there. I did not observe that the Rachel Seaman took any
part.

	Question. Did the Oneida pursue the strange sail immediately after
the first gun was fired from her, and how long did she continue the
chase?

	Answer. Yes, she did. I did not observe particularly how long.

	Question. What were the orders of the commander in chief in rela-
tion to stopping a strange sail approaching the blockade, and what wa~
the formula to be observed?

	Answer. I had no special instructions in that respect.

	Question. Did Admiral Farragut issue no general or special order&#38; 
to the squadron on the subject, to the best of your knowledge?

	Answer. I never received any.

	Question. What was the direction and force of the wind?

	Answer. I have forgotten.

	Question. How near did the strange sail pass the Oneida, in your
opinion?

	Answer. From 200 to 500 yards.

	Question. How soon after you spoke the Rachel Seaman did you
speak the strange vessel?

	Answer. I have forgotten the length of time; I suppose it might have been an
hour. I think that the signal to chase at discretion was very soon after the
answer to my signal that the Rachel Seaman was a friend.

	Question. Was the Rachel Seaman in sight when you spoke the
strange sail, and if so, how far distant, and what was her bearing?

	Answer. I presume that she was in sight, hut she did not come under my observa-
tion after speaking her.

	Question. What was the battery of the Winona; what was her rig,.
and with what sails was she I)rovided?

	Answer. She was a ninety-day gunboat, schooner rig, carrying gaff-topsails and
square sail. Her battery was an XI-inch pivot gun, two 24-pounder Dahlgren howit-
zers in broadside, and a 20-pounder Parrott in the forecastle, to the best of my
recollection.

	Question. What was the maximum speed of the Winona nuder steam,.,
and also under steam and sail?
	Answer. About S to 9 knots under steam; with square sail about 9 knots

Page 462

462	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	Question. After hailing the strange vessel, please state, particularly
Ihow you proceeded with the vessel under your command until you gave
up the chase.

	Answer. I passed her on our port side. I crossed her wake with a starboard helm,
and headed up for a position on her starboard quarter, following her iu. I never
obtained a position on her starboard quarter, as the Oreto rapidly gained thronghout
the chase. I followed in her wake as nearly as possible, only deviating from the
direct course to bring the pivot gun to bear, until the leadsman reported 2~ fathoms
water. I jndged that we were ou the east shoal of the bar, and starboarded my
iheim, giving up the chase. During the chase I fired at every opportunity.

	Question. Were yoa under full head of steam when you followed
her in?

	Answer. Yes.

	Question. Did you make sail?

	Answer. No, I did not.

	Question. Did the senior officer (Captain Preble) at any time give
you any orders about the manner of procedure in stopping a strange sail
to ascertain her character, before sending you in chase?
Answer. No, he did not.

	Question. It appears that the Oreto attempted to make sail; why
did you not do the same?
	Answer. I judged it was not necessary on my part. I am under the impression
that the wind was very light.

	Question. What was the rig of the Oreto, and what canvas was she
rigged to carry?
	Answer. She was a bark-rigged vessel, with sails corresponding; I have forgotten
whether her topgallant yards were across or not.
By Captain GEORGE II. PREBLE:

	Question. At what distance should you judge the Oneida was from
the bar when she first fired at the Oreto?
	Answer. I should think about 4 or 5 miles. I think that I was about 6 miles from
The bar, and that the Oneida was about 1 mile inside of me.

	Question. Was the Oneidas fire continued as long as yonrs?
	Answer. The Oneidas fire was continuous and rapid, including musketry; I do
not kaow how long it was prolonged. I am nnder the impression that I fired from
the Winona the last gun at the chase when she was nnder the guns of the fort.

	Question. When the Oreto answered your hail did you make any
exclamation, or give any order to your executive or any other officer
of the Winona?

	Answer. Yes. I think I told the first lientenaut that he might secure his gun, as
it was only an Englishman bothering the blockade. The gun was not secured, as I
retained the crew at quarters and countermanded the order immediately.

	Question. Do you remember the rig of the Oneida? If so, describe it.
	Answer. No. I do not specially remember any peculiarity of rig. The vessels of
her class had topsails.

	Question. Do you recognize this drawing as having any resemblance
to the Oreto and her rig?
	Answer. Yes. This bears a resemblance to the Oreto; she sits low in the water.
(The drawing referred to is marked No. 1, and appended to the record.)

	Question. What was the position of the Oreto when the chase was
abandoned by you?
	Answer. She was passing in the harbor of Mobile, nearly abreast of Fort Morgan

Page 463

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	463

	Question. Did the Oreto enter the channei over the bar, or across the
southeast shoal?

	Answer. Across the southeast shoal, as I judged at that time. I sounded on that
shoal.
	Question. Was she prevented from passing over the bar by the posi-
tions of the Oneida and Winona in the chase?

	Answer. I think not. Certainly not by the Winona; I dont know about the
Oneida.
	Question. Was it sunset, or near sunset, when you and the Oneida
abandoned the chase?

	Answer. Yes, it was dusk; after sunset.

	Question. Were objects indistinct, or visible, when the Oreto got in
under Fort Morgan? Could Sand Island light-house tower be seen?

	Answer, I could see the Oreto, but she was not to be seen distinctly, as it was
dusk. Sand Island light-house tower could be seen, but indistinctly.

	Question. How long had you been stationed on the blockade off
Mobile?

	Ans~ er. But a very short time. I think I joined about the middle of August; I
dont remember exactly, but think it was about that time.

	Question. What was the usual number of vessels stationed on the
blockade off Mobile?

	Answer. I dont know.

	Question. About how long had I been senior officer when the Oreto
ran the blockade?

	Answer. 1 do not recollect.

	Question. Did Commodore Hitchcock, my predecessor in command,
give you any specific orders with regard to chasing strange sails?

	Answer. I never received any specific orders on that subject.

	Question. Were you aware at the time of the chase of any rebel
vessel of war in the vicinity?

	Answer. I was not.

	Question. When and where and from whom did you first learn of the
Oreh and No. 290?
	Answer. Admiral Farragut informed me that there were two rebel vessels afloat
that answered the description I gave him of the chase. This was at Pensacola upon
the occasion of my reporting to the admiral with Captain Prebles despatch, men-
tioning the fact of the Oretos running the blockade.

	Question. What plainest, ordinary duty committed to an officer did
I omit on the occasion of the chase?

	Answer. I dont know of any, unless it is that you omitted to succeed in stopping
her.
By the COURT:
	Question. When you hauled off from the chase, what distance was
the Oneida from you, and how did she bear?
	Answer. I dont remember. She was very near; we were not far from each other.
Ithink she was to the westward as I came out.

By Captain GEORGE H. PREBLE:

	Question. What orders did I give you about carrying my dispatch
to the admiral at Pensacola?
	Answer. To carry the dispatch and to explain personally to the admiral all th8
details connected with the chase and escape

Page 464

464
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
	Question. Were you ordered to take your station for the night, and
leave the next morning, and to return as soon as possible ~

	Answer. Yes.


	Commander James S. Thornton, U. S. Navy, was recalled into court,
and his evidence having been read over to him he pronounced it cor-
rect, except that on page twelve (12) of the record he wishes to state,
that instead of leaving his station at the swash channel in obedience
to signal from the Oneida to chase to the westward, he was returning
to that station when that signal was made. Whereupon the witness
withdrew.

TESTIMQN~ OF JOHN N. MAFFITT, ESQ., LATE COMMANDER, C. S. NAVY.


	John IN. 1~I~ffitt, esq., a witness called by Captaiji George II. Preble,
U. S. I~ avy, was then introduced into eourt and sworn as a witness by
the senior officer present and presiding officer of the court pro tern.

By Captain GEORGE II. PREBLE:

	Question. What is your name and residence at this time?

	Answer. John N. Maffltt; near Wilmington, N. C.

	Question. Where were you on the 4th of September, 1862, and ii~
what capacity?

	Answer. In command of the Confederate steamer Florida, approaching the harbor
of Mobile.

	Question. Please give a narrative of the facts, as witnessed by your-
self, of the Oretos running the blockade on that day into II~1obiIe Bay.

	Answer. She was called the Florida, not the Oreto. I think it was about 3 oclock
in the afternoon when Fort Morgan was reported in sight, and also two steamers,
evidently blockade steamers. Having determined, if possible, to enter the harbor,
I did not change my course, but continued to advance. Both of them came out to
meet me. When quite near the Oueida I was hailed and ordered to heave to imme-
diately. I should say that a shot was fired across my bow previousiyto the hail. I
declined in response to obey the order, and immediately received a broadside, th&#38; 
effect of which was to carry away all my hammock nettings and much of my stand-
ing and running rigging. The superior speed of the Florida enabled me to pass tho
Oneida. She continued her bombardment. One XI-inch shell passed through the
coal bunkers on the port side, struck the port forward boiler, took off one mans
head as it passed on the berth deck, wounding nine men. If it had exploded, which
it failed to do, I no doubt would have lost every man in the vessel except the two men
at the helm, as I had ordered all the crew below. Immediately after this a shot
from the Winona entered the cabin and passed through the pantry; an XI-inch shell
from the Oneida exploded close to the port gangway and seriously wounded the ves-
sel. The fire from this vessel, the Oneida, increased in warmth and destruction, car-
rying away all the standing and most of the running rigging of my vessel. I
endeavored to make sail, and succeeded so far only as letting fall the topsails. Sev-
eral men were wounded in the rigging, the sheets and tyes shot away, so that I was.
not enabled to set .the sails properly. At this moment I hauled down the English
flag, under w~Juiich I was sailing as a ruse de guerre, and gave the order to one of the
helmsmen to hoist the Confederate flag. At that moment he was eudeavoring to
haul up the foot-brail of the spanker, and lost his forefinger with a shrapnel shot,
so that my order in regard to the flag could not be complied with. During all this
time shell and shrapnel were bursting over us and around us, the shrapnel striking
the hull and the spars at almost every discharge. We made no effort at resistance,
for, though armed, we were not at all equipped, haviugneitberrainmers nor sponges,
sights, quoins, nor elevating screws, and many of the men and some of the officers
sick with the yellow fever, from which disease the first lieutenant died in twenty-
four hours after we got into port. When we anchored under the guns of Fort Mor-
gan, shortly after sundown, the Florida was a perfect wreck, and only succeeded in
escaping by the smoothness of the sea and her superior speed. The XI-inch shell
which came in and passed along the berth deck entered 3 inches above the wate

Page 465

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
465
line, and if there had been any sea on our bilge pumps would not have saved the
vessel from sinking. An idea of the damage done to the Florida may be compre-
hended by the fact that it took three months and a half to repair herof course,
with the limited facilities at our command in Mobile Bay.

	Question. Had you any subsequent opportunity of ascertaining the
relative speed of the Oneida and Oreto or Florida?

	Answer. I did. I passed out of the harbor of Mobile on the morning of the 16th
of January, 1563, I think, and was chased by the Oneida from daylight until 12 oclock
at night, and found no difficulty in escaping from her. The only vessel that gave us
any annoyance was the Onyler.

By the JUDGE-ADVOCATE:

	Question. When the first shot was fired across the bow of the Florida
or Oreto, what was your distance from the Oneida?

	Answer. I think about SO or 90 yards. I got as near as that because I was approach-
ing her under English colors with a view of deceiving her.
	Question. When you first made the two steamers Oneida and Winona,
how did they bear?

	Answer. The Oneida was directly ahead of me, bearing, I think, N. W. The bear-
ing of the Winona I do not remember; I only paid attention to what I knew to be
the commanding officer.

	Question. At this time what was the bearing and distance of the
entrance to the harbor of Mobile?

	Answer. Sand Key Llsland] light-house bore N. N.W.; my impression isthat the dis-
tance was about 17 miles.
	Question. When first fired at by the Oneida, what was the bearing
and distance of entrance to the harbor of Mobile?

	Answer. I should think about 13 miles, the same bearing; I never changed my
course.
	Question. Did you slacken your speed at all upon approaching the
Oneida?

	Answer. I increased it.

	Question. How near did you pass the Winona?

	Answer. I think about 600 yards.

	Question. How long after passing the Winona was it before the shot
from the Oneida was fired across your bow?

	Answer. I can not tell the time. I dont think over three minutes.

	Question. Were you hailed by the Winona?

Answer. I did not hear any hail from her.

	Question. Did you inform the Winona in passing of the assumed
name and character of your vessel?

	Answer. I did not. If she hailed and any response was made, it was not to my
knowledge, as I was in the port gangway attending to the Oneida; as I left the Winona
so rapidly I considered my safe passage dependent only upon passing the Oneida.

	Question. When you passed the Winona, how did she bear?

Answer. She was on my starboard quarter.

	Question. When the first shot was fired from the Oneida, how was she
heading?

	Answer. She was apparently trying to cross my bow, I thought at first with the
intention of running me down.
	123A	3

Page 466

466	OPERATIONS 01? THE CRUISERSUNION.

	Question. Did any other vessel besides the Oneida and Winona take
part in the chase of the Florida, or Oreto?

	Answer. Yes. An armed schooner approached me on the port beam and fired sev-
eral shots into me; the damages received from her were principally in my spars.
She tacked ont of the way of the Oneid and ceased firing.

	Question. What was the draft of the Florida?

	Answer. Eleven and one-half feet, which enabled me to make a short passage
into the harbor by crossing over the tail of the shoal.

	Question. At the time the broadside was fired into the Oreto, or
Florida, what was yonr distance from the Oneida?

	Answer. Abont 80 or 90 yards.

By the COURT:

	Question. Was more than one shot fired across the bow of the Oreto,
or Florida, from the Oneida before you received her broadside 0?

	Answer. I think but one shot, so far as my memory serves me.

	Question. State how the Oneida was heading and bearing when her
broadside was fired at the Oreto, or Florida.

	Answer. She was on my port beam and heading, I think, abont N. N. W., nearly
the course that I was.

	Question. When you passed the Winona, how far distant were yon
from the Oneida?

	Answer. Probably 400 yards or less.

	Question. Did or did not the Winona fire a warning gun for the Oreto
to heave to when you passed her and was nearest to her 0?

Answer. She did not.

	Question. Which of the two, the Winona or the Rachel Seaman, did
you pass first0?

Answer. The Winona.

	Question. How near did you pass the Rachel Seaman?

Answer. About 700 yards, I think.

By Captain (IEOIWxE II. PREBLE:

	Question. Is the log book of the Florida now in this or the State
Departmentthe log book at the time you entered Mobile Bay 0?

	Answer. It is not in either; it was dropped in 15 fathoms off Charleston.

	The testimony of this witness was read over to him, and by him pro-
nounced to be correct. The witness then withdrew.

[OPINION OF THE COURT.]

	The court was then cleared and resumed its consideration and delib.
eration npon the evidence, and after full and matnre deliberation of all
the evidence, find the followinb facts to be established, viz:
	1. That on the 4th of September, 1862, the U. S. S. Oneida, Captain
George II. Preble, U.S. Navy,and the U. S.S. Winona, Commander Thorn-
ton, U. S. Navy, comprised the blockading force off Mobile Bar, and that
at about 5 oclock in the afternoon of that day, the Oneida being at
anchor, and the Winona underway returning to her station from speak-
ing the U. S. schooner kachel Seamai , which vessel was from Galveston
bound to Pensacola, black smoke wa~s discovered to the southward and
eastward, whereupon, at 5:15? signal was made from the Oneida to th

Page 467

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	467

Winona to chase at discretion, and at 5:30 the Oneida got underway
and stood toward the black smoke and cleared ship for action.
	2.	The Winona stood to the eastward, and soon after she, as well as
the Oneida, discovered the black smoke to proceed from a steamer flying
the English flag and pennant, and resembling in her rig, hull, and gen-
eral appearance, and in all other respects a gunboat belonging to her
Britannic Majestys service, standing about N. W. for the entrance to
the main channel of Mobile Bay. She approached and passed the
Winona at full speed, at the distance of about 600 yards.
	3.	The Winona made no attempt whatever to compel the stranger
to heave to, neither did she make any signal to the Oneida indicating
her character, assuming from her general appearance that she was a
friendly national vessel.
	4.	At the time the Oreto passed the Winona, the Oneida was about
1,000 yards distant in N. W. direction, directly in the course of the
Oreto, heading to cut her off. Captain Preble had also unfortunately
and erroneously concluded from the general appearance of the Oreto,
and the circumstance of her passing the Winona unmolested, that she
was an English man-of-war, and allowed her to approach at fall speed
and unaltered coarse without making the usual signal for her to heave
to until she was within about from 100 to 200 yards of the vessel under
his command, which had her helm astarboard, when he hailed her,
fired three shots in quick succession, the first two across the strangers
bow, and the third at his forefoot. By this time the Oreto was about
on his starboard beam or a little forward of it, and distant not exceed.
ing 100 yards, both vessels standing on parallel courses toward the
bar. Immediately after the third shot, the Oreto continuing on her
course with unabated speed, Captain Preble opened his broadside upon
her, pursued her, keeping up a continuous fire at her until she crossed,
by her superior speed, Mobile Bar out of range of his guns, and he was
compelled to haul off on account of shoal water and night approaching.
	5.	On the Oneidas firing the first shot, the Winona opened fire and
continued it upon the Oreto and pursued her until she was obliged to
haul off on account of shoal water.
	6.	The U. S. schooner Rachel Seaman also opened her fire upon the
Oreto when she was within range of her guns.
	7.	That the fire of the Oneida was effective, as the Oreto had the
greater part of her running and standing rigging shot away, which pre-
vented her making sail; received an XJ-inch shell between wind and
water; had one man killed and ten men wounded, and was otherwise
damaged; and that her final escape from capture or destruction was
due to her superior speed, and the disabled condition of the Oneidas
boilers, and a smooth sea.
	And the court are therefore of the opinion that the culpability of
Captain George II. Preble, U. S. Navy, consists in his omission, in
order to avoid showing discourtesy to a national vessel bearing the
flag of a friendly power, to warn or compel the Oreto to heave to on or
immediately after she came within range of the guns of the blockading
force under his command, and allowing her, under the erroneous con-
viction that she was a gunboat belonging to her Britannic Majestys
service, to approach at full speed, and to attain a position in such close
proximity to the vessel under his command, before warning or using
force to compel her to heave to, as to admit of, and which finally
resulted in, her escaping into the Bay of Mobile.
	In regard to the degree of culpability to be attached to Captain
George H. Preble, U. S. Navy, the court are of the opinion that his fail

Page 468

468	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

ure to take any measures to heave the Oreto to, from the time she first
came within gunshot range of the force under his command until he
fired the first signal guu to heave her to, was, under the attending cir-
cumstances, and considering his antecedents as an officer, a venial vio-
lation of duty, and that when it became manifest to him that the Oreto
intended to violate the blockade, he did all that a loyal, brave, and
efficient officer could do to capture or destroy her.
WM. IRADFORD,
Rear-Admiral, U. S. Navy,
Senior and Presiding Officer of the Court.
JAMES W. SHIRK,
Commander, U. S. Navy, and Jud~qe-Advocate.


[Telegram.]

NEWS RooM New York, September 5, 1862.
(Received Washington, 3:40 p. in.)
	Extract from letter dated Havana, 23d August:
	A.	Confederate steamer of war called the Florida, a new vessel armed with eight
rifled cannon, entered the port of Cardenas a few days ago and has obtained per-
mission to repair there.

	This is from a reliable source.
M.	II. GRINNELL.
W.	II. SEWARD,
Secretary State.


Order from Secretary of the Navy to Commander Craven, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, to proceed to the Gulf of Mexico
without deviation, except in the case of search for privateers.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, September 5, 1862.
	SIR: The Department can not see that any ne(~essity exists for your
remaining in England, therefore you will proceed to the Gulf of Mexico
and report to Rear-Admiral Farragut for duty in his squadrou. You
will touch at Madeira and St. Thomas and make iio deviation or delay
except in pursuit of rebel privateers, two of which, the Oreto and 290,
are in the West Indies.
	You can communicate the substance of these orders to his Excellency
the American minister at London.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
Commander TUNIS A. CRAVEN,
Commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, London, England.


Report of Commander Woodhull, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Cimarron, of preparations to proceed to Nassau, Yew Providence, in
obedience to orders.
U.	S. S. CIMARRON,
Hampton Roads, Va., September 5, 1862.
	SIR: The order of Admiral Goldsborough, received yesterday after-
noon, to proceed with all dispatch to Nassau, New Providence, there
to perform certain duties, etc., is being executed by me with all di

Page 469

OPERATIONS OF TILE CRUISERSUNION.	469

patch. I am now coaling and provisioning the Gimarron and making
certain and necessary repairs to the engine and boilers. I hope to be
ready in thirty-six to forty hours.
	I take the liberty of stating certain facts, not in ~ complaining sense,
but feeling it simply a duty I o~We to the Department to make them.
This steamer, as you are aware, was taken directly from the hands of
1 he contractors when she went into commission, without trial or
examination of any kind. She was deficient and defective in innu-
merable things, to wit: Her decks and hull were badly and defectively
calked and consequently leak badly; she is deficient in the comple-
ment of chains necessary for the safe anchorage of the ship, being but
75 fathoms each in length; her drop ports are too light, and so badly
constructed they are now falling to pieces and will soon have to be
renewed; her steering apparatus almost a failure (but this I have par-
tially corrected); it was formed of iron rods and chains passing under
her decks and retained in its I)lace with square iron hasps and holes in
the bulkhead, causing great friction. The compasses can not be
depended upon, the local attraction is so great it is almost impossible
to oI)tain any certainty about it. As to the model of the hull, it is
almost faultless for river and smooth-water navigation; her draft, with
all her battery, ordnance stores, coal, provisions, the crew, and their
baggage, is about 7 feet. I can not believe she can be a safe or a good
sea boat, or that her speed, which is now respectable, would be one-
half that it is now in a seaway. I would also say that her boat davits
are so short and badly placed the broadside guns can not be used
without destroying the boats by the concussion. I have glanced at
some of the principal defects; to make a succinct description of them
would take more time than the limits of this communication will per-
mit. The material of which she is built is of the poorest kind, and a
large prol)ortion of it green timber. Her decks are built of what is
terumed in commerce third or fourth cullings, and not of the kind used
in ships of war.
	I hope the Department will receive this statement in the spirit which
induces it, and with no desire, latent or otherwise, on my part to avoid
any order or duty you may require at my hand to be performed by this
ship.
	The Cimarron is without doubt the best shallow river craft in the
service amid will for that very reason be the worst one for sea service.
	My pilot informs me that he can take this steamer to Fredericksburg,
to Suffolk, amid if required could pass the Long Bridge and pass up
near to the Chain Bridge in the neighborhood of Washington.
	All of which I have the honor to submit for your consideration.
~1 am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
M.	WOODHULL,
Commander
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


1~eport of Comman~der ill. C. Jlfarin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship
St. Louis, of his arrival at Lisbon, Portugal.

U.	S. SHIP St. LouIs,
Lisbon, Portugal, September 6, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the presence of this ship at this
place, at which I arrived on the 8th ultimo, last from the islan

Page 470

470	OPERATiONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

of Madeira. INothing occurs in this vicinity worthy of particular
notice.
	*	*	*	*	*	* *
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	M. C. MARJN,
U. S. Ship St. Louts.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Instructions from the Secretary of the Navy to Commodore Wilkes, U. S.
Navy, appointed to command West India Squadron, regarding the pro-
tection of commerce in that vicinity.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, September 8, 1862.
	Sin: The information that two or more armed vessels, without any
recognized national flag, and which are understood to be owned by
rebels, are cruising in the West Indies with a view to depredate on
American commerce, renders it necessary that a naval force should be
immediately sent thither to protect American vessels and American
interests. One of these vessels, the Oreto, alias the Florida, fitted out
in England, was recently at INassan. The American consul there has
from time to time given information of her suspicious character, and
his conviction that she was designed for lawless purposes, but the
British authorities, after an examiuation and trial, released her and per-
mitted her to leave that port, and there is no longer any attempt to
disguise her real character.
	Another vessel has been for some time fitting out in Great Britain,
and the attention of the English Government was called to her mis-
chievous and illegitimate character, and after undergoing one or two
investigations, having been released, she suddenly left when proceed-
ings were again about to be instituted against her. This vessel has
been known and designated as 290, and is sometimes called the Eureka
[Enrica].
	The Department has information that other vessels are destined for
similar purposes in the same quarter, and it is therefore essential that
prompt and vigorous measures be adopted for annihilating these law-
less depredators by their capture, and, if necessary, destruction.
	You h ye been selected to command a squadron for this purpose, to
be composed of the steamers Wachusett, Dacotah, Cimarron, Sonoma,
Tioga, Octorara, and Santiago de Cuba. The last mentioned is now in
the gulf, or attached to the Eastern Gulf Blockading Squadron. With
these vessels you will proceed at once to sea, having in view the objects
	make your way to the Bahamas, in which vicinity
herein specified and
you will have your first rendezvous. Your cruising ground will be the
Western Indies and Bahamas, though you will not be restricted to these
limits should it be necessary to pursue any privateer or enemys vessel
beyond theni. Much must necessarily be left to your judgment and dis-
cretion.
	While exercising your rights as a belligerent, you will observe and
resl)ect the rights of neutrals, always avoiding to give unnecessary
offense while asserting the authority and enforcing the duties of yoar
command. Let no provocation induce you to invade the maritime juris-
diction of any neutral power, and let all your acts be within the reco

Page 471

OPERATIONS OF THE ORUISEI~StJNION.	471

nized ilinitations of international law and regulations. With these
precautions, unnecessary perhaps in your case, you will proceed to dis-
charge the great trust committed to you of guarding and protecting the
commerce of our countrymen, upholding and maintaining the honor of
our flag, and conquering and capturing its enemies and assailants.
	I enclose for your guidance a printed COPY of instructions issued by
this Department on the 18th of August last, which have been sent to
the commanding officers of our squadrons who are enforcing the block-
ade. You will find these instructions adapted to the duties and ser-
vice committed to yon. Additional copies are furnished for each com-
manding officer of the respective vessels constituting your squadron.
	As the danger to our merchant and shipping interest is pressing and
imminent, it is the wish of the 1)epartment that you proceed at once
on your cruise with such of the vessels as are available, without wait-
ing for the others which will be ordered to join you. Those that are
ready should be dispatched to their station immediately.
	Commodore Lardner has been advised of the withdrawal of the San-
tiago de Cuba from his squadron, and of the assignment of the Bahamas,
heretofore within the limits of his command, to your charge.
	Communicate with the Department when opportunity offers. Dis-
patches for you will be sent to Havana.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
Commodore CHARLES WILKES, U. S. Navy,
Appointed to Command West india Squadron, Washington, D. C.


Order of Flag- Officer Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific Squadron, to
Commander Stanly, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Narragansett,
relative to the protection of Caiifornma steamers.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Acapulco, September 8, 1862.
	SIR: The station of the U. S. S. Narragansett, under your command,
will be from Cape San Lucas to that part of the Mexican coast extend-
ing from Guaymas to Acapulco, including Mazatlan, San Blas, and
Manzanillo. You will visit these several places as often as circum-
stances will admit,.
	The mail steamers, both from San Francisco and Panama, touch at
Manzanillo on or about the 27th of each month. As these ships have
generally a large amount of treasure on board, it is important that you
should be at the latter place at this particular date. Manzanillo has
no harbor defenses and it is here that an attempt might be made to
seize these ships by a party, consisting of rebels and traitors to our
country, many of whom, calling themselves American citizens, are
prowling abeat this coast. It is necessary, therefore, that you should
exercise the utmost vigilance in the examination of every vessel you
may encounter in your cruise along the coast, in order to frustrate any
attempts on the property of loyal citizens of the United States, or
those of Mexico with whom we are at peace.
	To render your ship as effective as possible, you will remain in port
only long enough, from time to tinme, to refresh your crew and to replen-
ish your stores. You must endeavor to economize your fuel by using
your sails as much as possibh~, banking up your fires except when you

Page 472

472	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

engines are absolutely necessary. By care on the part of the engineer,
when sustained by the commander, a large portion of the fuel now
expended could be saved.
	I can not sufficiently impress on your mind the necessity of a cour-
teous intercourse with the nationalities you maymeet, afloat oron shore,
and the strictest neutrality, which is necessary to be observed between
belligerents.
	You will be pleased to communicate with the flag at least once in
twenty days, directing your letters to Panama. Should you have any
information to communicate to the Government which will admit of no
delay, you will write direct to the Secretary of the ~ avy, sending me
a copy of your dispatches.
Very respectfully, yours,
CuAs. II. BELL,
Flag- Officer, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Commander FABHJS STANLY,
Commanding U. S. S. Narragansett, Acapulco.


Instructions from the Secretary of the Navy to Commodore Wilkes, U. S.
Navy, commanding West India Squadron, in view of depredations by
Confederate steamers Florida (Oreto) and 290 (Alabama).

NAVY DEPARTMENT, September 9, 1862.
	SIR: Though no particular limits in the West Indies are assigned
to your command whilst pursuing the Vessels of the rebels, yet your
particular attention is called to the vicinity of the Bahamas, with your
headquarters at Havana. Should the rebel vessels 290 and Oreto (now
Florida) be captured or destroyed, and no other privateers are knowii
to be in the West Indies, you will at once make the following disposi-
tion of your vessels and immediately retain to Hampton Roads in the
Wachusett, viz: Santiago de Cuba and Sonoma to Acting Rear-Admiral
Larduer at Key West; Dacotah and Octorara to Rear-Admiral Du Pont
at Port Royal, and the Cimarron and Tioga to Rear-Admiral Farragut
at Pensacola.
	It is presumed that the rebel privateers will endeavor to capture the
treasure ships from Aspinwall, and your particular attention is directed
to their protection.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.J
Commodore CHAS. WILKES, U. S. Navy,
Appointed to Command West India Squadron,
Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander MeDougal, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Wyoming, that the rumor regarding Confederate privateer in Chinese
waters is unfounded.
U.	S. STEAM SLOOP WYOMING,
Miacao, September 9, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my arrival at this port on the 28th
ultimo, three days from Manila.
	The orders of the English Government still exist at llongkong i

Page 473

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	473

relation to the vessels of the Kavy anchoring at that port, and not
wishing to give them an opportunity to enforce the regulation as far
as this ship is concerned, induced me to anchor her here, as I had it from
a reliable source that the order would be rigidly enforced after twenty-
four hours, should I go there. The requisite supplies of coal, bread,
etc., I have had to procure from that place.
	The rebel privateer reported in this sea proves a ~nyth. The report,
as far as I can learn, probably originated in supposing some of the many
American steamers coming to China for the purpose of trade to be pri-
vateers, as all of them are more or less armed for their protection from
Chinese pirates. I shall leave on the 11th for the north, touching at
the intermediate ports.
	I am happy to state the health of the officers and crew still contin-
ues good.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
D.	MCDOUGAL,
Commander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, 1). 0.


Report of Commander Woodhull, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
(Jimarron, of detention for repairs at Port Royal, S. C., en route for
Nassau, New Providence.
U.	S. S. CIMARRON,
At Sea, Lat. 290 20, Long. 750 15, September 10, 1862.
	SIR: On my passage to Nassau, New Providence, being about 300
miles from that port and about the same distance east of Port Royal,
it was discovered that the engine frame was badly strained, many of
the knees supporting it having been broken, and others shrunk or
pressed off from their position, and the frame in consequence, from this
cause, evidently had commenced spreading, thus throwing the engine
out of line; we also c rried away the gearing of our force pump and
burst the supply pipe, leaving us nothing to depend upon bat the
donkey engine to supply the boilers, which upon trial proved inadequate
to the full accomplishment of the work. This accident also deprived
us of the use of the surface condenser. We find also on further exam-
ination that nearly all the deck (perpendicular) knees on both sides of
the steamer amidships had also become displaced, loosened, and other-
wise lessened the strength of the ship.
	Under those circumstances I held a consultation with the engineers,
the carpenter, and other proper officers, as to what had best be done,
all things considered. The opinion arrived at was that in calm, mod-
erate weather we might continue in this condition some little time
longer without actually breaking down totally, but that the worst
might be apprehended as certain should we encounter a gale or rough
weather. Believing it my first and imperative duty to look to the safety
of my command and not to encounter unnecessary risk, I determined
after due reflection to proceed at once to Port Royal and there have
the miecessary repairs ma(le if possible. I was governed in this choice
from the knowledge I had that the Government had established a
workshop at that port. Indeed, judging from aremark in one of my letters
from the Department expressing a doubt as to the ~)ossibility of being
permitted to coal at Nausau, I drew from it the conclusion that we
might also be refused their mechanical aid

Page 474

474	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I would also state the hull of the Gimarron is very much strained,
and her weakness of construction is very apparent when she encounters
a head sea. Her decks leak badly, and she is, from the verypeculiarityof
her model and low draft, without buoyancy or any quality requisite for
a sea-cruising vessel. She rolls frightfully and at the slightest provo-
cation; she does so to such a degree it would be risking a great deal to
cast loose the heavy guns should the necessity arise making it desir-
able to do so. She does not rise on a sea, but disposes of it by scooping
part of it in volume over her bows and passes staggering through the
remainder. Her decks are never dry, and, owing to her waist being
some 10 inches below her extremities, the water accumulates amidships,
filling up the space within a few inches of the top of the engine room
combings, and the o aly provision made to relieve her is one small scup-
per. This I conceive is one of her most vital defects. Should she take
over her several seas in succession, there being no proper facilities for
getting speedily rid of the accumulations of water, her engine room
would be swamped, her fires (being but 2 feet above the bilges) would
be extinguished, and the consequences that would result are too patent
to the mind of an experienced officer for further comment on my part.
	The weather since we left Hampton Roads has been what might be
termed fair sea weather, yet for this vessel it has been comparatively
rough and trying. How she might behave in a storm it is of course
difficult to say, but the opinion is, of all on board capable by their
experience to judge, that she could not survive it, as it is believed her
inherent weakness of construction would cause her destruction.
	She steers wildly, constantly swinging two or three points either
side of her direct course, and, in consequence of her low draft (being
now about 6 feet 8 inches), has but little hold on the water, and her
drift with a moderate breeze is very considerable.
	The hull of this vessel is very low, fiat floored, with very little dead
rise. She breaks the water directly on the guards, which are not quite
3 feet above the water line, and are now rather shaky with the little
exl)erience she has had already. Her rudders are square blocks, appar-
ently working through holes to receive them. They are a very poor
contrivance, and if one might judge of the strength of the rudder by
the work in sight, I confess very little faith in its lasting character.
	I shall do all in my power to have the necessary repairs made in the
shortest time possible, and will, without any delay, continue my voyage.
I am sincerely anxious to do so, and feel this interruption a great and
personal disappointment to myself. This is the first occurrence of the
like nature that I have experienced in the many years I have coni-
manded, and it has caused me painful concern. I hope the Department
will consider my acting, under the circumstances, justifiable.
	All of which I have the honor to submit for your consideration.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
M. WOODHIJLL,
Commander, U. $. Navy.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Endorsement.]

	This vessel was built under the same supervision and specifications
as the Paul Jones and Port Royal. The order of the Department was
to have vessels of light draft of water, which, when obtained, is made
the special complaint of this officer.
JOHN LENTHALL

Page 475

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	475

Order from Secretary of the ~Yavy to Captain Green, U. S. Navy, com-
manding U. S. S. Jamestown, to proceed to the East Indies for the pro-
tection of American commerce.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, September 11, 1862.
	SIR: As soon as the U. S. sioop of war Jamestown, under your com-
mand, is in all respects prepared for a cruise, you will proceed with her
to the East Indies via the Cape of Good Hope. On your way out you
will touch at Rio de Janeiro and Montevideo. At the latter place the
U. S. S. Pulaski will most probably be found. The Department designs
to dispose of this steamer either at public or private sale, as may be
most advantageous, unless upon an examination and survey of her by
a board of competent officers you shall be of opinion that she is in a
condition, or can be made so economically, for efficient service on the
coast of Brazil. If you deem it advisable to sell her, you will direct
her officers with such of her crew as enlisted in the United States to
return home by the first suitable conveyance. The remaining part of
the crew can be paid off and discharged.
	Your special object in the East Indies will be the protection of
American commerce in those waters from piratical cruisers or rebel pri-
vateers, and for the better accomplishment of this object the Depart-
ment will not restrict your cruising ground to any definite limits bat
leave the matter to your discretion. You will remain in the East Indies
and on the coast of China until receiving further orders from the
Department.
	1 transmit herewith for your guidance a copy of instructions to our
cruisers, issued by the Department on the 18th ultimo. You will keep
the Department advised of your movements. Any communications
that it may have for you will be directed to Macao.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
	Captain CHARLES GREEN, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. Sloop of War Jamestown, Philadelphia.


Report of Captain ]JfcKinstry, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Dacotah,
of arrival at Nassau, New Providence. en route for Key West, lila.
U.	S. S. DACOTAH,
Off Nassau, New Providence, September 14, 1862.
	SIR: In compliance with the order of the honorable Secretary of
Navy, I have to report the arrival of this steamer. For the purpose
of procnring coal I shall proceed to Cochrane Anchorage, and after
making some repairs to the engine, will proceed to Key West.
	Yery respectfully, your obedient servant, ~ ~ MOKINSTRY,

Commodore CHARLES WILKES,
	Commandiny West India Squadron.	Captain, U. S. Navy.


[Telegram.]

ALBANY, N. Y., September 16, 18625:30 p. m.
(Received Washington, 6:30 p. in.)
	SIR: If there is anything in the statement of the New York World
of this morning in reference to rebel vessels, and I have informatio

Page 476

476	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

from a most respectable source which goes to corroborate it, J am sure
the new ironclad Government steamer can be put to no use more unpor-
taut for all interested than by placing her at once in New York Har-
bor, which I earnestly request.
E.	D. MORGAN,
Governor of New York.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy.




Letter from Secretary of the Navy to Hon. E. D. Morgan, governor of
New York, regarding the protection of New York Harbor by an iron-
clad.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, I5~eptember 17, 1862.
	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your telegraphic dis-
patch dated Albaiiy, September 16, 5:30 p. in., suggesting that the
new ironclad Government steamer can he put to no use more important
ftr all interested than by ~)lacing her at once in New York Harbor.
The steamer referred to is probably the New Ironsides, now at Phila-
deiphia, where her presence is most earnestly requested by Governor
Curtin.
	The Galena and Monitor are guarding the entrance of the James
River in anticipation of the Merrimack No. 2. Under these circum-
stances it would seem to l)e impossible to comply with your request.
	In this connection 1 desire to present for your consideration a letter
addressed by this Department to the chairman of the House Naval
Committee, dated March 25, 1862; also, as bearing on the same subject,
the letter of General Totten, dated May 10, 1862, addressed to the Sec-
retary of War and communicated to the House.
I am, respectfully,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
His Excellency E. P. MORGAN,
Governor of New York.




[Telegram.]


NAVY DEPARTMENT, September 20,1862.
	What is the cause of your detention at Hampton Roads l The Oreto
has got safely into Mobile, and the 290 must be nearly to Bermuda or
Nassau. Let one or two of your vessels touch at Bermuda. There
should be no further delay in your movements.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy.
	Commodore WILKES,
Hampton Roads, Va

Page 477

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	477

Letter from Acting Rear-A dmiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding
West India Squadron~, to Secretary of the Nary, suggesting means for
securing coal.
FLAG STEAMER WACHUSETT, September 21, 1862.
	DEAR SIR: My anxiety to get off has beeii very much increased
from the condition of the machinery of this steamer. We have burt t
some tubes since leaving the Potomac. Every exertion has been made
by the engineer to repair damages an(1 to limit the repairs, as well as
obviate the necessity; some of these it became absolutely necessary to
make before putting to sea, where the machinery must undergo many
severer trials than it has had while on the river service. I can not flatter
myself or the Department that the vessels are as efficient as they ought
to be for the service on which we are to be engaged. We shall do the
best possible with them.
	Coal is one of the first considerations which forces itself upon me, in
looking to the wants of the squadron, and the danger of having com-
munication with The Ilavannah to coal during the existence of the yel-
low fever. I would suggest to you that there is a most excellent har-
bor on the coast of Florida, about 42 miles north of the Carysfort
light-house, which is admirably adapted for the purpose of coaling. It
is called Turtle Harbor; has over 25 feet depth of water, aiid well
secured from sea and winds. It is easy of access, and what is of more
consequence, very near to the northwest New Providence Channel.
Carysfort light-house is sighted by almost every vessel passing through
the Florida Straits. If the Department could send meiminediately two
or three schooners with cargoes, say 1,000 or 1,200 tons, it would obviate
all necessity of resorting to The llavannah for coal, until such time as
the fever had ceased. This harbor is well shown on the charts of
the Coast Survey, and recommended as a harbor of reftige in the Coast
Pilot and sailing directions. It will not take vessels longer to make it
than Fernandina from the Northern ports. I shall look into it,if my
time will permit. You will see that it lies more conveniently for coal-
ing than any other point oii the coast for vessels passing through the
Florida Straits.
	If the Department decides on sending the squadron a supply there,
I beg that 1 may receive information by the Octorara relative thereto.
A telegraph message will reach her after you receive this. It will
enable	me to make my arrangements accordingly.
Very respectfully,
	CHARLES WILKES,
	ion. GIDEON WELLES,	Commanding.
Secretary of the Navy.


instructions from Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, command-
ing West India Squadron, to Commander Wyman, commanding U. S. S.
Wachusett, relative to boarding and searching vessels, with enclosure on
the same subject.
U.	S. S. WACHUSETT,
Hampton Roads, September 21, 1862.
	Sm:	I send herewith a copy of printed directions for your guidance
in boarding and searching vessels of all descriptions and nations.
These you will attentively study; they will be your main guide in the
performance of the duties you are about to enter upon

Page 478

478	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	You will particularly examine and scrutinize the character and car-
goes of every vessel, and keep a full and minute record of every circum-
stance connected with your operations. Your boarding officer must be
furnished with a memorandum book, in which to insert the time and
place of boarding, and all the questions asked and replies given, so as
to trust nothing to memory. The officer will be considered as making a
confidential communication to and for you, to be imparted to no one else.
No one but the boarding officer will be permitted to have access to it.
The contents of this will be copied in a boarding book, to be kept by
yourself, extracts from which will be forwarded to me on every avail-
able occasion. No officer but the boarding officer is to be permitted to
board, or receive or convey any communication, letter, or papers to or
from any vessels, except through you.
	Enclosed you will also find prize letters, which you will be particular
in filling up, and observe all the requirements therein, especially in
reference to the transfer of the prize crews, as found on the third page.
	In the event of searching any British vessels, under the suspicion of
being slavers, you will be governed by the treaty of the 7th April of
this year, between the United States and Great Britain, and all slaves
captured are to be disposed of in accordance with the arrangement
between the United States and Denmark. Printed copies of these
documents are enclosed.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Gommandiny West India Squadron
	Commander II. II. WYMAN, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Wachusett, West India Squadron.

[Enclosure.]

Further explanatory instructions for commanding officers in boarding and searching vessels.


The Navy Department directs
That you visit, without regard to their clearance or destination, all vessels not
being public armed ships of war of foreign powers; and that in the case of all ves-
sels carrying cargo or engaged in commerce, and not being regular mail steam pack-
ets engaged in the regular and stated mail service of foreign governments, you will,
during the -visit, exercise the unquestioned belligerent right of search, and if, upon
direct search, it shall appear that arms or contraband of war constitute the cargo
or such part thereof as would render aid to the enemy, then you will exercise the
no less unquestioned belligerent right of seizing such vessel and cargo and send in
the same for adjudication.
	This, being an ungracious task, should be done in a spirit and manner not offensive.
Judgment and discretion must be exercised. To seize does not necessarily involve
condemnation. The courts will adjudge the whole question of prize or no prize.
	The more specific and detailed instructions recently transmitted will guide the
officers in their duty.
	The Department has made it a special object to obtain and communicate to the
commanding officers of the squadron enforcing the blockade information in regard
to vessels which were preparing, or believed to be preparing, to give aid to the insur-
gents. This information, derived in various ways, may not always be authentic,
and is of such a character as should not be communicated to the captured parties.
It is a mere indication to our own officers to guide and assist them in their duties.
A search will corroborate and confirm the intelligence, if correct; and without a
search that shall furnish reason to believe the vessel has contraband of war, or is
designed to violate the blockade, or in some way aid the insurgents, she should not
be seized.

	The above explanation is made because it has been intimated that
sonic officers construed the indication that was given them of a sus-
pected vessel into an order for her seizure without a search. Other

Page 479

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	479

appear not to have informed themselves of the belligerent right of
search, aud by a culpable OH)i5SiOn of its enforcement have permitted
~ressels which it was their duty to have seized to pass unmolested.
	It is to avoid a repetition of these errors that this communication is
made in detail.
CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron.

U.	S. S. WACHUSETT, September 21, 1862.




Letter from Secretary of Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy,
commanding West India Squadron, regarding shipment of coal.

NAY~ DEPARTMENT, September 25, 1862.
	SIR:	Turtle Harbor referred to in your note, is but about 7 miles
north of Carysfort Reef instead of 40. Instructions have been given
to the navy agent at New York to take up vessels and ship 2,000 tons
of coal to Turtle Harbor for the use of your squadron. It is not known
that he will be immediately successful, but should he not, you shall be
advised by the Vanderbilt.
	The Department desires you to have an examination made to see if
anything can be saved from the Adirondack.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron.




Order of Secretary of the Navy to Commander Bryson, U. S. Navy, com-
manding U. S. S. Chippewa, to proceed to the relief of U. S. S. Kearsarge
in preventing the escape of the C. S. S. Sumter.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, September 27, 1862.
	SIR:	On Tuesday next, the 30th instant, you will leave the navy yard
and proceed with all practicable dispatch with the U. S. steam gun-
boat (hippewa to Algeciras, Spain, and relieve the liT. S. steam sloop
of war Kearsarge in watching the rebel steamer Sumter.
	To prevent the escape of this vessel is your first and principal duty.
Should the Sumter be dismantled, you will report to the Department all
the facts and await orders at Algeciras.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Commander ANDREW BRYSON,
Commanding U. S. Gunboat Chippewa,
Navy Yard, Washington, D. C

Page 480

480	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Upton, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. store bark Release, of serious depredations committed by Coi~fed-
erate vessels in the vicinity of the Azores.

U.	S. STORE BARK RELEASE,
Cadiz, September 28, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to enclose to you a copy of a letter from Mr.
Dabney, U. S. consul for the Azores, received by me on my arrival at
the port of Fayal on the 15th instant.
	It seems that the rebel privateers have been committing serious
depredations near those islands. The information is very meager, how-
ever, bnt from what I could learn there are two steamers, one bark
rigged, the other schooner or brigantine, the latter iron or ironclad
(the report is ironclad); both have elevating smokestacks, which they
keep down most of the time while cruising.
	I am inclined to believe this to be your old acquaintance, 290, but as
there was a favorable wind for starting the same day I arrived, I was
not able to make a stay for very extensive enquiries.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
DANIEL P. UPTON,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding.
	Commander T. A. CRAVEN, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora.
[Enclosure.]

CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE AZORES,
Fayai, September 15, 1862.
	SIR: I beg to call your attention to the following:
	The whaling brig Eschol, Robertson, master, of New Bedford, Mass.,
arrived at this port on Saturday evening last, 13th instant, and the
captain reported yesterday that on Tuesday last he was off the western
end of Flores when the lookouts at the masthead reported two steamers.
He, ascending with a glass, made out that the smokes they had seen
were not caused by steamers, but by the hulls of two burning vessels.
After a while he made out a vessel which he supposed to be a steamer,
from the length of the hull and the distance between her masts, and
also, after continuing his course some time, a whaling bark and a her-
maphrodite brig or topsail schooner. Later he saw tile bark set on fire
and wrapped in flames, and concluding the ste~mer to be an American
rebel privateer or so-called Confederate Government vessel, he kept
close to the shore, determined to run his brig upon the coast sooner than
have her captured.
	At about 5 p. m. he spoke a boat belonging to the island of Flores
which had been to the wreck to save what was possible, and from the
men in it he learned that the two vessels tirst burned had been towed
out from under the land in the morning and then tired when 6 or 7 miles
from shore~ th t one of them was a Fayal and Boston packet belonging
to Wellfleet (doubtless the little schooner Starlight, which sailed from
here about a week previous), with passengers, and thatthe hermaphrodite
brig was a Portuguese, saving what she could from the wrecks. These
men also reported that another steamer had bnrned four vessels, whalers,
off the eastern end of Flores the day previous, and on the Friday pre-
vious the whaler Ocmulgee, which at the time had a large whale along-
side. The last that Captain Robertson saw of the steamer was that
she was standing under sail to the N. B., wind at the time bein

Page 481

OPERATIONS OF THE C RUJSERSUNION.	481

easterly and she to leeward of the island. None of the vessels had colors
set.
	I have no doubt that this steamer is one of two which were at Ter-
ceira some three weeks since, and which, under English colors, outside
the harbor received munitions of war from a bark also under English
colors, preventing all intercourse with shore and disregarding the
objections of shore authorities, and which afterwards entered the liar-
bor and there took in coal froiri the bark. At this time of the year it
is the custom for the North Atlantic whaling fleet to touch at these
islands for supplies. This fact is doubtless known to these depredators,
and I think it probable, therefore, that they will cruise in these waters
for some weeks. I have also heard to-day from England that certain
parties in these islands are going to keep coal, evidently to supply Con-
federate steamers, as they know that such alone are debarred from
obtaining supplies at my coal depot here; and from all these circum-
stances I reason that it is of the highest importance to our commercial
marine to have some swift and powerful steam vessels of war in these
waters. Sailing vessels would be worse than none at all, as they would
be more likely to fall a prey to these steamers than to capture them.
	As you report the U. S. steamers Tuscarora and Kearsarge in Spanish
waters, at Cadiz or Algeciras, I think that you can serve our country
in the most available manner at present by immediately proceeding in
search of one or both, and reporting this statement to them, that they
may at oiice, if their orders will permit, start in pursuit of these cow-
ardly robbers.
I remain, sir, with much respect, your obedient servant,
CHAS. W. DABNEY.
	Lieutenant D. P. UPTON, U. S. Navy,
U. S. AS~. Release, in port.




Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Upton, U. S. Navy, commanding
U.	S. store barh Release, of the rumored presence of the steamer 290
(Alabama) and other suspicious vessels in the vicinity of the Azores.

U.	S. STORE BARK RELEASE,
Gadiz, September 29, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform the Department of my arrival here
from Fayal nuder the following circumstances:
	I sailed from this port on the 15th instant for Boston, thinking I
might possibly gather some information regarding the movements of
the suspicious steamers which have lately cleared from England and
evaded our vessels. I concluded to stop at Fayal and make enquiries.
On my arrival, at 2 p. m. on the 15th instant, Mr. Dabney, U. S. consul,
immediately informed me of the depredations committed by rebel pri-
vateers in those waters, only a few days previous, and strongly advised
me, if I deemed prudent to go to sea, that I should return and advise
Commanders Pickering and Craven of the proceedings.
	Considering the importance of informing the United States officials
in Europe of the affair, I deemed [it] advisable, as this vessel is a good
sailer in ballast trim, to run the risk ot cal)tIlre, and accordingly, the
night being very dark, at 9 p. In. extinguished all lights, got under way,
and stood to sea, leaving word at Fayal that IL was going off Flores to
123A3

Page 482

482	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

cruise. In the morning we were to northward of Graciosa and with a
fine breeze were soon clear of all immediate danger.
	There seems to be but little doubt that one of these steamers is iron
or ironclad and from the description resembles the 290, both of them
elevating smokestacks, which they lower while they cruise under sail
with very easy steam.
	I enclose a copy * of Mr. Dabneys letter for the information it may
convey to the Department.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
DANL. P. UPTON,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding.
Hon. GInEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy, Washington, D. C.




Report of Commander Mann, U. S. Nary, commanding U. S. ship St.
Louis, of destruction of American vessels by Confederate steamers Ala-
bama and Barcelona, near the Azores.

U.	S. SHIP ST. Louis,
Lisbon, Portugal, September 28, 18G2.
	SIR: Information has just reached me of the destruction of a number
of American vessels in the vicinity of the Azores by the rebel steamers
Alabama and Barcelona. I shall sail by the first favorable wind for
that point in pursuit of these rebels ,whose acts seem mostly of a pirat-
ical character. The information coming to our minister, the lion. J. E.
harvey, and directly from Charles W. Dabney, esq., our consul for the
Azores, leaves no ground for doubt, and indeed the accounts given by
the masters of the several vessels destroyed have reached the legation
here.
	Froum the accounts given by our acting consul at the island of Ter-
ceira, one of the group, I judge that these steamers have been supplied
with their armaments and munitions by English hands through a ship
or bark bearing the English flag in one of the ports or bays of the
island.
	Both steamers are represented as bark rigged. The Alabama is
described by the master of one of the captured vessels, who was a pris-
oner on board, as follows: Wooden ship, long, narrow, and straight;
bark rigged. Some would call her barkentine rigged when her main-
sail is not set, as the mainsail has a long drop, but I am positive that
her mainsail is square. She may be known by the long drop to her
fore and mainsails and her topgallant sails being broad and with very
short hoist. The crew are all English and Irish.
	This account may serve the Department in information to other
cruisers, and I will take every opportunity, when I reach the islands,
of communicating any further desirable information that I may obtain.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
M.	C. MARlIN,
Commander, U. S. Ship St. Louis.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
See preceding letter

Page 483

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	483

Report of Commander Collins, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Octorara,.
of readiness of that vessel for sea.

U.	S. S. OCTORARA,
Hampton Roads, September 28, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that the repairs of the machinery of
this vessel have just now been completed and that we will sail today
for our destination, via Port Royal.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
N.	COLLINS,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Na~y, Washington, D. C.



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Nary, commanding West
India Squadron, of arrival at Bermuda, West Indies, and giving infor-
mation regarding the Confederate steamer 290.

U.	S. FLAG STEAMER WACHIJSETT,
Bermuda, September 29, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform the Department that I arrived at
this island on the evening of the 27th and anchored in the outer roads,
with the Sonoma and Th)ya in company; all well. There are seven
steamers here under the British ifi g who are preparing to run the
blockade. No.290, or the Eureka [Enrica], is expected here. From the
accounts I receive of her she has but little speed, and is generally
believed it is the intention to run the blockade instead of becoming
a cruiser under the Confederate flag; at least, the agent here has [be.
lieves] her employmeiit is to be such. I do not believe she will prove
any match for even one of our gunboats. If she has an armament, it was
not mounted when she left England. We shall endeavor to intercept
her before she reaches the colonial waters of her Britannic Majesty.
	I shall leave here in a day or two and proceed to carry out your
instructions with all activity.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES.
[Acting] Rear-Admiral and Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, relative to blockade runners at Bermuda, West Indies.

FLAcf STEAMER WACHUSETT,
At Bermuda, September 29, 1862.
	DEAR SIR: I take the first opportunity which offers to inform you
nf my proceedings since leaving Hampton Roads, which was shortly
after I received your last telegraphic dispatch, to which I had not time
to reply, and if I had I should not have been able to give you all the rea-
sons which caused the delay iu our sailing, although I flattered mysel

Page 484

484	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

 that we had exerted every nerve to get ready to be off. I had a full
knowledge of what the difficulties [were], which were scarcely to be
imagined by the Department. Your telegram relative to Bermuda
satisfied [me] I had better touch at it to see how things were here, as
it would be but a short distance out of my way to the Bahamas, and
from the information I had relative to the movements of those intend-
ing to run the blockade, it was their principal depot of ~nrns and muni-
tions of war. In this I have not been mistaken. We have found
seven vessels, all steamers, nearly or quite ready to sail, and the very
evening of our arrival two of them were giving farewell parties before
leaving. This they have not done yet, nor are they likely to do with-
out our knowing it and having a chance at least of capturing them
before they get far from the island. They are all under English colors,
but make no secret of their intention to run the blockade with arms
and munitions of war. Their names are as follows, viz: The ]Jiliinho,
Mary Pinkney, Phwbe, Gladiator, Merrirnac, Washita, and another small
one whose name is not recollected at present. Several are expected
from Europe and are to touch here; among them the 290, or Eureka
[Enrica], and the probability is that they will be here soon if what I
bear here is to be relied apon.
	I was surprised to learn from Mr. Allen, the consul, that he had here
some 1,200 tons of coal owned by the (Thvernnient, and that it was
ready for us to take. I doubted in my own mind whether there had
not been a notification on the part of the British Oovernment that nei-
thei the United States nor the so-called Confi~derate States would be
allowed to have depots of coal in any of her British Majestys colonial
ports, and as the Department had niade no mention of it in these
instructions I was doubtful of the existence of such a i-egulation. The
consul readily offered to examine his files, an(l there he found the noti-
fication by the government of this island to him dated 19th February
last. It thus would have the appearance that I had sought this port
to fill up the vessels from the depot, although I had been, up to the
time of my arrival here, entirely ignorant of there being any coal here.
	I had entered the harbor with this vessel and the Tioga, leaving the
&#38; rnorna to cruise off and on to prevent the escape of the vessels who
intend to run the blockade, both of these vessels requiring to have
their journals overhauled, as well as pillow blocks to the shafts and
the tubes to be replugged, and fires of course drawn. After being at
anchor an hour IL received a dispatch from the governor having printed
extracts of her Britannic Majestys proclamation for my information.
I aclinowledged its receipt, and that I should have the honor to pay
my respects to the governor in the afternoon at Hamilton House, 12
miles distance.
	On our entrance into the port no national flag was exhibited from
the flagstaff, as is usual on the entrance of men-of-war of foreign
nations throughout the world, and his Excellencys dispatch was deliv-
ered to me by a person in ordinary dress, and no official characteristic
about him; these it is true were insignificant signs, and nuder other
circumstances might not have been observed. I, however, had made
up my mind to give them no cause on our part whatever to find fault,
and therefore at once dispatched an officer to offer the customary
national salute if it would be returned; thi~ was gladly and civilly
accepted and the salute fired, and returned gun foi- gun.
	I made my visit to the governoi accompanied by Mr. Allen, the
consul, Commander Wyman, and my aid, Lieutenant Todd. We were
politely received, and the visit of an hour passed off very pleasantly

Page 485

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
485
ii told him I had received of course his note but the next day being
Sunday, I presumed he did not desire we should begin coaling (which
under the regulations we were permitted to a certain extent to do). He
said certainly not, and intimated he left it to my own option so far as
the repairs, etc., were consistent with the Queens proclamation. He
was gentlemanly and kindly disposed, and seemed greatly interested
in the progress of the rebellion, and hoped the satisfactory news I had
brought hun in the papers of late date, which I had sent him with my
dispatch, would soon bring the war to a conclusion. It occurred to
me that if I took the coal from the consul it might appear as if the
Department had sent the vessels, and on consultation with him I found
he agreed with me. So, after consideration, I directed him to sell it
to a bona-fide purchaser and to again purchase what we wanted for
the vessels, so that there should be no depot in fact of that article by
the Government here, and if so, it had been broken up. As we could
not take it all, I have chartered a vessel to take upward of 300 tons
to be delivered to the squadron in the New Providence Channel at one
of the cays, or to carry it to Turtle Harbor. This will effectually, I
hope, guard the squadron against visiting any port where there is
yellow fever and ease the Departmen~~~ mind relative to guarding
against this danger.
	By this course of the coal changing hands and the breaking np of
the depot which really existed here, although it had iiot been resorted
to, an apprehended difficulty, I hope, has been avoided and we are now
taking in the coal; of course we shall not raise the qii~estion ourselves,
but if it should be raised against me I think I can make a good case
of it, and neither compromise the Government or myself, or the consul,
although the fact of which I was ignorant or uninformed, about the
existence of the supply being here, would scarcely obtain credence. I
shall trust that no difficulty can now occur to place us in any doubtful
point of view, and 1 believe as tar as outward appearances go that they
are less inclined to cavil at the North than they were, although the
whole population of this island, strange to say, are with but very few
exceptions strong sympathizers with the Southerners. This is shown
in many cases, and it is not to be wondered at when nearly all the
influential islanders are more or less interested in running the block-
ade. The presence of the force here has produced a wonderful effect
in their stocks in trade, and their jubilant actions have termiiiated in
distress. It is undoubtedly their intention to make their escape at
night by one of the many passages through the extensive reef which
surrounds this island, but I trust we shall be equally sharp to prevent
their getting off. They little anticipated the delays they will be sub.
jected to. I shall leave one or both of the gunboats now with me here
for a time.
	I suppose the Department of State is aware that the legislature of
the island have passed a law not to permit any more arms or ammuni.
tion to be transshipped or exported from this island, and that the
approval by the~ Crown is daily expected here. It will be a great
object to prevent the sailing of these vessels until the law shall go into
effect. It is believed that as soon as it arrives the Governor will issue
his proclamation to carry it into effect, when the arms and ammunition
will have to be landed again, and, from what can be known, there
appears to be no doubt but that they compose the principal bulk of
these cargoes. Having provided for the detention of these vessels, or
their capture if they venture to leave the island ports, I shall proceed
as soon as we have coaled to the rendezvous which I have appointed i

Page 486

486	OPERATIONS QF THE CRUISERSUNION.

the Providence Channel, where I hope to be equally fortunate in con-
trolling their contraband trade. I have much information connected
with their operations and believe it is to be relied npon. I shall soon
be able to sift it for myself. Ii think there is little doubt but that the
290, or ~~ri~a,is destined for this place. It is understood her first
stopping place is the Western Islands, bat I should rather believe it
to be the Cape Verde, and thence toward the West Indies. It is,
however, useless to speculate on her movements. There is an agent of
the Confederate States here who avows openly that she will touch
here. I hope she may. The performance of the vessels (gunboats) has
been satisfactory and they are getting in good fighting order. They
lack, if anything, speed; at least, do not come up to my expectations.
We have not as yet been able to get over 11 knots. This is con-
siderably beyond what any of the steamers lying now in port can
accomplish.
	I believe I h ye now given you all that will be interesting, and my
next dispatch will be from The llavannah.
I am, with great respect, yours,
CHARLES WILKES,
	Acting] Rear- A dm ira], commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTAENT, September 30, 1862.
	Report to Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes that 2,000 tons of coal will
leave immediately for Turtle Harbor. The Cimarron is repairing at
Port Royal. Acting Rear-Admiral Lee will give you men. Do not
delay your departure. You should have written about the men the
first day you took command.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Commander N. COLLINS,
	Commanding U. S. S. Octorara, Hampton Roads, Va.



Report of Captain ]IiLcKinstry, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Daco-
tah, of cruise, and enclosing correspondertee with authorities at Nassau,
New Providence, concerning coal, etc.
IT. S. S. DACOTAH,
Key West, September 30, 1862.
	SIR:	In compliance with the orders of Rear-Admirals Goldsborough
and Lee, with telegrams from the Department accompanying them,
dated on the 4th and 5th instant, I left Hampton Roads on the evenin
of the 6th and arrived oft Nassau, New Providence, on the morning
of the 14th. The run to the latter place, having been prolonged by the
indifferent workings of the engines and bad weather, reducing the
(~nalItity of coal oii board, the U. S. consnl was requested to obtain a
supply. Copies of the consuls letter and the reply of the colonial au-
thorities are enclosed, marked Nos. 1 and 2.
	To the arbitrary and unusual assurance required by the governor o

Page 487

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	487

the Bahamas I was compelled, most reluctantly, to assent, having so
small an amount of fuel on hand. The ~ reply thereto, marked
No. 3, is enclosed.
	About 20 tons of coal was taken from the American ship Esther, at
anchor off Nassau, when a rough sea induced me to cast off from her,
and the following day proceeded to this port, arriving on the 18th
instant, where the stores were replenished and the steamer made ready
for sea.
	Not hearing from Commodore Wilkes, for whom a lette:, detailing
the steamers movements, was left with the U. S. consul at Nassau, I
consulted with Real-Admiral Lardner and proceeded to sea on the 23d
instant, touching at Havana on the 24th for eight hours, and from
thence cruised between the Tortugas and Havana until the 28th
instant, boarding and speaking several vessels
is transmitted by this mail.		a tabular list of which
	In the absence of Commodore Wilkes I shall proceed to sea and
execute such orders as Rear-Admiral Lardner may deem expedient.
I am, sir, with great respect, your obedient servant,
	JAMES P. MOKINSTRY,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Captain, U. S. Navy.

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosures.]

No. 1.

U.	S. CONSULATE AT NASSAu, NEW PROVIDENCE,
	September 14, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note, card,
and dispatches this morning. I have written to the governor asking
permission for you to remain and coal at this Dort, which will undoubt-
edly be granted.
	If you have time to see Captain Wilson, of the Spiteful, before he
leaves, and will get his sanction, addresse(l to Commissary-General
(oldie, you may get coal from the American ship Esther, anchored near
you. If not, Mr. liahming, whose agent accompanies this boat, will be
glad to make terms with you to put on board 100 tons or more of good
Sydney coal for $12 per ton, and give you quick dispatch.
	I am quite hors de combat with a severe cold, contracted at the wreck
of the Adirondack. I should much like to see you and hope to do so
ere long. I see the Spiteful is nuder way, and therefore your best
chance, I think, is with Mr. IRahming.
1 have the honor to be, sir, your friend and servant,
SAML. WHITING,
U.	S. Consul.
	Captain J. P. MCKINSTRY,
Commanding U. S. S. Dacotah, off Nassau, New Providence.


No. 2.

COLONIAL SECRETARYS OFFICE,

Nassau, September 15, 1862.
	SIR: In reply to your letter of the 14th instant, I am directed by his
Excellency to say that he is quite willing to accord the hospitalities of
the harbor to the Dacotah; but that if she has malignant fever o

Page 488

488	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

board his Excellency requests she may proceed to Salt Cay (3 miles
off).
	With regard to allowing her to coal, his Excellency will willingly
grant this, after receiving the written assurance of the captain that
at no time within ten days after leaving the port will she be cruising
within a distance of 5 miles from any of the islands of the Bahama
Government. But without this assurance the permission will not be
given.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
C.	It. NESBITT,
Colonial Secretary.
SAML. WHITING, Esq.,
U.	S. Consul, etc., ATassaU.



No. 3.

U.	S. CONSULATE AT NASSAU, NEW PROVIDENCE,
September 15, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellencys
dispatch of this date, a copy of which was promptly sent to Captain
McKinstry, and I enclose his reply.
	The Dacotah is in urgent need of fuel, and, in his emergency, Captain
McKinstry has been compelled to give the unusual assurance your
Excellency has seen fit to require. I am authorized to state that per-
fect health prevails on board the Dacotah, and that her commander
wishes to coal from the ship Esther. He requires about 60 tons of fuel
to enable him to reach a friendly port.
I have the honor to, be your Excellencys obedient servant,
SAML. WHITING,
U.	S. Consul.
His Excellency Governor BAYLEY, etc.



Report of Gommander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Sonoma,
of the attitude of the British authorities in the port of Bermuda, West
Indies, in regard to the anchoring of that vessel.

U.	S. S. SoNo~A,
Off Bermuda, October 1, 1862.
	SIR:	I have to report, in accordance with your wishes, that as I was
in the act of anchoring in Five Fathom Hole, off the harbor of St. George,
just before dark on the evening of the 30th ultimo, a boat was dis-
covered quite close to us, but not near enough to understand the hail
from the officer commanding it. Upon anchoring, the boat came along-
side and an English lieutenant from H. B. lvi. S. Desperate came on board,
and iu a brusque and imperious manner stated that he belonged to
Ii B. lvii. S. Desperate; that it was the governors orders and the admirals
wishes that I should not anchor, but go into St. George that night;
stating further, if I did not then go in I could not go in at all, but must
weigh anchor and go to sea. I replied that I had anchored; that as it
was then dark and the pilot was unwilling to take me I could not then
enter the harbor. As for orders, while in the vicinity of my admira

Page 489

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	489


I knew no authority but his, arid that I should immediately communi-
cate with him. The officer enquired if this ias my reply, and upon
being informed that it was, left the Sonoma and pulled toward the
Desperate, when I proceeded t once into the harbor in my gig and
rel)orted the occurrence to you.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
T. H. STEVENS,
[Commander, U. S. Navy.]
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Comman ing West India Squadron.




Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Upton, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. store bark Release, of departure from Cadiz for Gibraltar Bay to
watch C. S. S. Sumter, and enclosing letter from Commander Craven,
U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora.

U.	S. STORE BARK RELEASE,
Cadiz, Spain, October 1, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor of informing the Department of my departure
from this port for Algeciras this day, iu compliance with orders received
from Commander Craven, of the Tuscarora, to proceed to Gibraltar
Bay and watch the Sumter.
	I shall there await farther orders from a senior officer or from the
Department. I enclose a copy of Commander Cravens letter to me on
the 29th ultimo.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servaut,
DANL. P. UPTON,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of Navy.
[Enclosure.]

U.	S. S. TUSCARORA,
Cadiz, kleptember 29, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the 28th instaut, with the accompanying copy of a coininunication from
the U. S. consul at Fayal, respecting the depredations on our commerce
by certaiu pirates in that vicinity. I must express my thanks for the
very commendable promptuess you have shown in bringing me this
information.
	I will sail for the Western Islands without delay, and request that
you will, on your arrival in the United States, send a copy of this letter
to the honorable Secretary of the Navy. You will leave here two days
after my (lepartnre; touch at Fayal for further intelligence of me if you
can without material loss of time.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient seivant,
T.	AuGs. CRAVEN,
Commander.
	Acting Volunteer Lieutenant DANL. P. UPTON,
Commanding U. S. Bark Releas

Page 490

490	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Captain Pickering, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kear-
sarge, transmitting telegra from U. S. minister to Portugal relating
to depredations committed by C. S. S. Alabama (290).

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Fayal, October 6, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to enclose a copy of telegram received on the
29th ultiino, from the U. S. minister at Lisbon. Immediately upon the
reception of this telegram I filled up with coal and provisions and
started for Fayal the next evening (30th). Off Cadiz, on the morning
of the 1st instant, I communicated with the Tuscarora, just leaving that
port for the Azores, and consulted with Commander Craven. I lost
sight of the Tuscarora on the evening of the 2d instant and arrived here
this morning at 8 oclock; communicated with the consul and irnmedi-
ately commenced coaling.
	I am sorry to be obliged to confirm the truth of the enclosed tele-
gram. Ten whalers have been destroyed by the Alabama (290), com-
manded by Captain H. Semnmes, and one other missing, reported to
have been sunk with all on board, though I can find no evidence to
support this rumor. The Alabama is about the size of this ship (1,000
tons), armed with eight Blakely guns, two of them 68-pounder pivot
guns. I shall cruise in the vicinity of the Azores until satisfied of the
departure of the Alabama from this region and return to my statiou
by way of Madeira.
	Nothing reliable had been heard of the Alabama since the 19th ultiino.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERiNG,
Captain.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[EnclosureTelegram.]

LISBoN, September 28, 1862.
(Received in Algeciras at 8:09 oclock.)
	Information just received requires your immediate presence at Azores.
Semmes, iu Alabama, has destroyed ten whalers. He is aided by another
steamer called Barcelona; both wooden. Depredations were committed
near Flores. No delay admissible.
JAMES E. HARVEY,
U.	S. Minister.
Captain PICKERING,
War Steamer Kearsarge, A lgeciras.



Letter from the U. S. consul, Nassau, New Providence, to Acting Rear.
Admiral Wilkes, U S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, rela-
tive to U. S. war vessels anchoring at Nassau.

U.	S. CONSULATE AT NASSAU, NEW PROVIDENCE,
October 7, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt this morning of
your note of yesterdays date, informing me of yoar arrival off this
port in the Wachusett, accompanied by the Octorara

Page 491

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	491

	I went out to communicate with you last evening in a small schooner,
but you were standing oft shore, and after an hours fruitless chase I
returned to port. Governor Bayley has peremptorily ordered that
any U. S. war vessel must obtain his permission before anchoring at or
off this port, and he only allowed the Dacotah to take in her necessary
fuel on condition that Captain McKinstry and myself pledged our
words, in writii ig, that the Dacotah would not approach any of the
Bahama Islands within 5 miles, within ten days of her departure.
Yet, notwithstanding, any Confederate pirate is allowed every facility,
and the whole population seems to vie with each other in giving every
aid and conifort to the rebels.
	The blockade runner, British-Confederate steamer Scotia, is in this
harbor, transshipping her cargo of cotton into the steamer Stanley,
br Liverpool.
	A large British-Confederate steamer, name unknown, is also reported
on the south side of the island laden with munitions of war for the
South.
	I beg to offer you my congratulations on your promotion, and to
express my ardent hopes and hearty wishes for your highest success
in your profession.
I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, etc.,
SAML. WHITING,
U.	S. Consul.
	[Acting] Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
U.	S. S. Wachusett.



Letter from Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S.
Navy, commanding West India Squadron, rel4tive to Captain Semme~
being at Barbados.
NAVY DEPARTMENT,
October 8, 18G2.
	SIR: The following is an extract from a dispatch, dated the 13th
ultitno, received by the Department from the U. S. consul at Parama-
ribo:
	I received intelligence from Barbados per the last mail, of the 9th instant, that the
notorious pirate Semmes, formerly of the Sumter, coaled a steamer at that port,
with the British flag at the peak, and under an assumed name. He had quite a
cargo of heavy boxes on board, supposed to contain arms, but had no powder.

I am, respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES, etc.



Report of Captain llfeKinstry, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Dacotah,
of a cruise, enclosing orders from Acting Rear-Admiral Larduer, and
letter from R. W. Shufeldt, esq., U. S. consul-general at Havana, Cuba.

U.	S. S. DACOTAH,
Key West, October 10, 1862.
	SIR: On the 30th ultimo I had the honor of forwarding a report of
the arrival of this steamer at this port, and of my proceedings to that
date

Page 492

492	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	In the absence of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, I consulted the com-
manding officer of this station, and in compliance with his orders,
marked No. 1, I proceeded to sea on the 2d instant, to cruise as therein
directed. On the morning of the 4th instant a boat was sent into
Havana to communicate with Consul-General Slnifeldt, a copy of whose
letter is enclosed, marked 2.
	In consequence of several cases of yellow fever appearing amongst
the officers and crew, and at the advice of the surgeon, a copy of whose
letter, marked 3, is enclosed, I returned to this port on the 6th instant,
that more suitable hospital accommodations and diet might be obtained
for the sick.
	On the 7th instant I addressed a letter to Acting Rear-Admiral Lard-
ner, enclosing a copy ot Dr. Bloodgoods letter, marked No. 4. It was
understood that he had directed the fleet surgeon nd the surgeon of
this ship to report on her sanitary condition. No report to this date
has been received by me, owing, I suppose, to the illness of Acting
Rear-Admiral Lard ncr.
	In the expectation that Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes may soon
arrive and that the late season may arrest the progress of the disease,
I shall for the present remain here, for the benefit of the sick, whohave
advantages that they could not have at sea.
I am, sir, with great respect, your obedient servant,
	J. P. MCKINSTY,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Captain, U. &#38; Navy.
Secretary of the Yavy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosures.]

FLAGSHIP ST. LAWRENCE,
Key West, October 1, 1862.
	SIR: As soon as the Dacotah, under your command, is ready for sea,
you will proceed to cruise on the coast of Cuba,~ between Havana,
Bahia honda, and the Tortugas. You will communicate with the con-
sul-general at Havana, when in want of information, and supply your-
self with coal there if the health of the place makes it desirable. You
will be careful not to trespass upon the territorial rights of Spain.
Look into Key West occasionally.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	L. LARDNER,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding East Gulf Squadron.
Commander JAMES P. MCKINSTRY,
U. S. S. Dacotah.


IT. S. CONSULATE-GENERAL,
ilavana, October 4, 1862.
	DEAR SIR: The following transcript of a letter I sent under date of
yesterday to Commodore Larduer conveys all the information I possess
respecting the movements of rebel vessels:

	I have to advise you of the arrival lately of three steamers from Southern ports,
viz: September 21, British steamer Victoria, Lambert, from Sabine Pass, cotton;
September 23, Confederate steamer Cuba, Wilson, from Mobile, cotton; Oct oberi,
British steamer Alice, from Mobile, cotton. These steamers, under English colors,
are Southern or Confederate property, and carry the enemys fia~ forward. The
steamers Arizona, Austin, W. U. Hewes, and Atlantic are still here, and some of them
seem to be making preparations for departure

Page 493

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	493

	The U. S. steam sloop of war Dacotah, Captain J. P. McKinstry, was here some
eight or ten days ago. I advised Captain MeKinstry of the intended movements of
these rebel vessels.
	I advised Captain MeKinstry of the probable arrival of these steamers, as they
generally come one after the other in short intervals, and told him that the next
point to cruise for them was between this and Bahia Honda. Since this conversa-
tion the Alice and Cuba ha~re arrived.

	The health here will permit you to coal whenever you think proper
to do so. The entire cost is $3 [0?] per ton. I presume bills on our
Government are salable here, though at a very heavy loss; first-class
merchants bills are at a high discount, and generally bills on Govern
ment do not bring as much as the others.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
R.	W. SHUFELDT.
	Captain J. P. MCKINSTRY,
Commanding U. S. S. Dacotah, off Havana.



[Telegram.J


NEW BEDFORD, MASS., [October 10,1862.]
(Received [Washhigton] 4:10 p. m.
	The rebel steamer 290 has seized and burned five of our whaleships
off the Western Jslands about the 5th September. There is a large
fleet of whalers requiring the protection of the Government; an armed
steamer or steamers should be sent at once. Answer.
J.	C. DELANO,
In behalf of stx shipowners of New Bedford.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES.



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, announcing arrival at Havana, and trausmittiny cor-
respondence with authorities at Bermuda.

U.	S. FLA&#38; STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Havana, October 10, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to enclose herewith copies of correspondence
had at Bermuda, and beg leave to state that I will write the Depart-
ment by the first opportunity. I arrived here with the Wachusett this
morning. All well.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
[Enclosures.]


GOVERNMENT HOUSE,
Mount Langton, Bermuda, September 27, 1862.
	SIR: Her Majesty the Queen of Great Britain being fully determined
to observe the duties of neutrality during the existing hostilities
between the United States and the States calling themselves the
Confederate States of America, and being, moreover, resolved to pr

Page 494

494	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

vent, as far as possible, the use of her Majestys harbors, ports, and
coasts, and the waters within her Majestys territorial jurisdiction,
in aid of the warlike purposes of either belligerent, 1 am commanded
to communicate for your information and guidance extracts from cer-
tain rules laid down by her Majestys orders* and directions, and which
came into force in these islands on the 5th day of March 1862.
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient, humble servant,
H.	ST. GEORCTE ORB,
Governor and Commander in Chief.
The OFFICER COMMANBIZNcf U. S. SHIPS OF WAR,

Off St. George, Bermuda.

U.	S. S. WACIIUSETT,
St. George Harbor, September 27, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communi-
cation of this date, and will avail myself of the honor of visiting you
in person this p. m.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
[Acting] Rear-Admiral, Commanding U. S. West India Squadron.
His Excellency H. ST. GEORGE ORB,

Governor and Commander in Chief, St. George, Bermuda.


U.	S. FLAG STEAMER WACHUSETT,
St. George Harbor, Bermuda, September 30 [1862]8 p. m.
	DEAR SIR: Agreeably to the wishes of his Excellency the governor
of this island, I state through you, for his information, that I have just
had corn runnication with Commander T. H. Stevens, U. S. Navy, coin-
manding the Sonoma; that he has informed me that the necessary
repairs and coaling can all be made in not exceeding thirty six hours;
that the Tioga is ordered to leave this port early in the morning and this
steamer at noon. The Sonoma will enter to-morrow morning after the
Tioga leaves, according to the understanding I had with his Excellency
to-day when he made his visit to this vessel.
I am, very respectfully, yours, etc.,
CHARLES WILKES,
[Acting] Rear-Admiral, Commanding the West India Squadron.
C.	M. ALLEN, Esq.,
U.	S. Consul for the Bermuda islands.

U.	S. S. WACHUSETT,
St. George Harbor, Bermuda, October 1, 1862.
	SIR:	At the moment we were prepared to lift our anchor to leave
this port, agreeably to the understanding I had with your Excellency,
an accident has occurred to a tube or tubes of our starboard boiler,
and so serious a one that it has extinguished the fire. I regret that
this untoward rupture has made it impossible for this steamer to go to
sea this morning.
	It is due to myself to inform your Excellency that we have already
started the work by drawing our fire to get at the defective part. I
*See p. 325

Page 495

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	495

enclose, for your information, the report of the chief engineer, stating
the probable time it will require, as nearly as can be estimated, to
effect the repair, on the completion of which the Wachusctt will at
once leave the port.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
[Acting] Rear-Admiral, Commanding U. S. West India Squadron.
	His Excellency H. ST. GEORGE ORIJ,
Governor and Commander in Chief, Bermuda.

GOVERNMENT HOUSE,
St. George, Bermuda, October 1, 1862.
	SIR: I have had the honor to receive your letter of this days date
acquainting me that at the moment you were preparing to lift auchor
to leave the port an accident occurred to a tube or tubes of the boiler
of the Wachusett, to effect the repair of which, the chief engineer states,
will require, as nearly as can be estimated, ten or twelve hours, on the
completion of which the Wachusett will at once leave the port.
	As the accident which has occurred is one which it would probably
be inconvenient to repair at sea, I have to convey to you my permis-
sion for the Wachusett to remaiii in this harbor for the further period
of ten or twelve hours, which it is estimated will be required to repafr
the accident, after which this vessel must proceed to sea.
	The gunboat Tioga having completed her necessary supplies of coal
and gone outside to cruise, it is my duty to enforce in her case the
provisions of the rules laid down by her Britannic Majesty, an extract
from which I had the honor to enclose in my communication of the 27th
September, and I have to instruct you that this vessel can not be per-
mitted to return within these waters.
	I beg also to bring to your notice that at the interview I had the
honor to have with you yesterday, you requested my permission for
the Sonoma to come into port for the purpose of performing some
repairs to her journals and valves which you stated at the time could,
if necessary, be performed outside, but that I at once acceded to your
request and granted the desired permission.
	No allusion was made to the vessel requiring any coal, and had you
mentioned that such a necessity existed, I should have explained to
you that her Majestys rules prescribed that a United States vessel of
war in want of coal shall only be supplied once in three mouths, with
as much as may be sufficient to carry her to the nearest port of her
own country, and that inasmuch as the Sonoma had arrived in this
port with a supply of coal on board which she had since been expending
in cruising in these waters, I could not consistently with the spirit of
her Majestys instructions permit her to take any more coal on board.
I now learn that this vessel is at present engaged in taking in coal, but
being unwilling to enforce with anything like harshness the regulations
which she has in this instance infringed, I shall not offer any obstacle
to her completing this operation in the understanding that the restric-
tion imposed in the fourth paragraph of her Majestys rules are
adhered to.
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient, humble servant,
H.	ST. GEORGE ORD,
Governor and Commander in Chief.
	[Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES, U. S. navy,
Commanding West India Squadron.

Page 496

496	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

MOUNT LANG-TON, BERMUDA, October 1, 1862.
	SIR:	I have just received a report from Lieutenant Grant, H. N., of
H. M. S. Desperate, of the l)artidulars of an interview which he had
the honor to have with you yesterday evening in consequence of Captain
Thrupp, H. N., of H. M. S. Desperate having instructed the commander
of the U. S. gunboat Sonoma that she was not at liberty to anchor in
the fairway of the channel Leading into St. George Tiarbor, and which
instruction you observed I had not communicated to you my intention
of issuing when I had the honor to see yon in the course of the day.
I hasten to explain that it was not until after I had landed from your
ship yesterday that I was informed that the Sonoma had been in the
habit of anchoring in the objectionable position she now occupies, and
I accordingly instructed Captain Thrupp that although, in pursuance
of the arrangement made at our interview, this vessel would be recalled
and directed to come into the harbor, yet should her return be delayed
until the evening, and should she proceed again to anchor in the posi-
tion alluded to, he was to acquaint her commander that this could not
be permitted, and that she was to enter the harbor for repairs.
	To obviate the possibility of any misconception, I do myself the
honor to recapitulate the underst nding which was arrived at yesterday
respecting the future movements of the vessels under your orders in
these waters, viz, that the Waehusett and the Tiogct would proceed to
sea this day, and the Sonoma would come into St. George Harbor for
the purpose of performing certain necessary repairs which would not
occupy her more than thirty-six hours, after which she would at once
proceed to sea.
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient, humble servaiit,
H.	Sv. GEORGE ORB,
Governor and Commander in Chief.
	[Acting Hear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES, U. S. Navy,
Commanding West India Squadron.~


U.	S. FLAGSHIP WACHUSETT,
St. George Harbor, October 1, 1862.
	SIR:	After a careful perusal of your dispatch of this date, I per-
ceive that you have inferred, if not stated so exJ)licitly, that the com-
manders of the vessels under my command have infringed the rules
established by her Britannic Majesty whilst in the waters of this
island. I should not have deemed it necessary to notice the charge, or
to attempt to correct the impression, were it not that silence on my
part might be construed as an acknowledgment of the truthfulness of
the assertion and give some color to the charge you have, I think,
inadvertently made against the commanders serving nuder inc. For
the purpose of justifying their conduct, as well as umy own course, it
will be necessary for me to refer to what occurred on my arrival here,
and the understanding I had with you, based upon the rules established
by her Majesty, a copy of which, together with your dispatch of the
27th of September, was conveyed to me on my arrival in an unusual
manner by an individual without rank or position.
	In this connection it may be proper to remark that Colonel Munros
explanation to inc of the oversight on the part of those in charge of
the station on shore in failing to display the English ensign at the time
civilities were interchanged was satisfactory, and it afforded me pleas-
ure to notice that, on departing, this customary attention was observed

Page 497

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	497

	On my anchoring iii this harbor of St. George I found several steam-
ers bearing the English ensign and was informed (indeed they boasted)
that they were engaged in illicit or contraband trade with the rebels,
several of them having already run the blockade into and out of South-
ern ports of the United States, contrary to and in direct violation of
her Majestys proclamation of neutrality. These facts, I am informed,
are well known to every person on these islands.
	Notwithstanding the unfavorable impression this state of things was
calculated to make upon my mind, I immediately tendered a national
salute, through my flag lieutenant, which was, after some delay,
accepted and returned gun for gun. I also promptly acknowledged the
receipt of your dispatch of the 27th instant, and mentioned that I
should have the honor to call upon you that p. m. at Mount Langton,
your residence, near Hamilton, a distance of 12 miles. This I did in
company with the American consul, C. M. Allen, esq., Captain
Wyman, commanding the Wachusett, and my flag lieutenant, Todd.
In my interview with you, I enquired if my crews would be required
to work on Sunday, or if Sunday was to be counted in the time speci-
fied in the rules of her Majesty. You at once told me that it was not
necessary to work on Sunday, and that that day would not be counted
in the time specified; consequently no coaling was done until Monday.
At an early hour on that day the operation commenced, we employing
as many of the working classes on shore as was necessary to do the
work expeditiously, paying them liberally for their services, wishing,
as is our universal practice, to confer a benefit, though small, upon
them.
	On Tuesday, your Excellency did me the honor to make me a visit,
accompanied by the lieutenant-governor, Colonel Munro, of the Thir-
ty-ninth Hegiment. In reply to your Excellencys question, when the
vessels nuder my command would leave, I answered, the next day;
the Tioga at an early hour and the Wachusett at noon. And in answer
to your enquiry relative to the other vessel, the Somonma, I said it was
my intention to order her in likex~rise for repairs and coal; that I did
not believe it would take more than thirty-six hours to effect what was
required. I stated that as to the exact time required to get the ves-
sel ready for sea, I could not say positively, but that I would enquire
of the commander of the Sonorna and inform you particularly if you
desired. You requested me to do 50 thronglm the American consul
that p. in., whk~h I did in a note to him. in this statement I am borne
out by Commander Wyman, who was present at the time in my
cabin.
	Commander Stevens, of the Sonoma, whom I sent for, informed me
that he had been boarded by Lieutenant Grant, of the Desperate, on
one of her Majestys vessels, as he anchored in the roads after dark,
preparatory to obeying my orders to come in in the morning, who or-
dered him off saying, by his governors order as well as the admirals
(my) wishes, to which Commander Stevens replied that he would wait
until he received his admirals orders ~ that he would consult me, and
he did so. The plea set up to him was that he was occupying the
fairway, which is adverted to in your Excellencys dispatch of this
morning. I must confess my ig~ orance of what is meant by the term
fairway in an open roadstead. In conversation with me you adverted
to his anchoring at night. I said that it no doubt was the case.
Commander Stevens had spoken to me of a capital fishing bank, about
5 miles off on which he may have anchored. I have never expressed
~ny wishes to any one reh~tive to the movements of the Sononma, and
	1234	3

Page 498

498	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION. -

certainly would not do so to any officer of the British Crown, or through
them, for the guidance of any commander under me.
	To proceed. The iSonorna came in shortly after the Tioga left, and we
were prepared to go to sea at noon, when the occurrence took place
which made it necessary for me to state to yonr Excellency our inabil-
ity to get out under steam and the necessity of making further repairs,
enclosing to you the report of my chief engineer that the time required
would not exceed ten or twelve hours.
	In your dispatch of to-day, relative to the Sonoma, you state that no
allusion was made to that vessel requiring coal. Captain Wyman and
myself are fully impressed with the fact that it was stated and, even if
it had not been pointedly referred to, your own knowledge and good
sense would have led you to the conclusion that it was intended. The
other vessels having been permitted to take in the amount of coal
specified in her Majestys rules left no doubt iu my mind that a like
permissiou was accorded to her. Moreover, in my note to the consul,
writteu at your request, coaling was expressly referred to. I enclose
a copy of the note. Furthermore, in your dispatch you state that I men-
tioned the repairs ou the Sonorna could, if necessary, be performed out-
side. No such idea ever entered my mind that they could be effected
there.
	In carefully perusing your dispatch of to-day, with all due respect,
I can not void being struck with some of its peculiar expressions; one
of them, I have to instruct you that this vessel (the Tio~qa) can not be
permitted to return within these waters. This I can not permit; my
Government has alone the power of instructing me. The Tioga left
this morning to cruise, and she has not as yet infringed upon any of
her Majestys rules. It would therefore appear that the remarks in
your dispatch relative to her are entirely uncalled for.
	I feel myself called upon, in behalf of my Government, to express
my thanks for the limited privileges extended to us under her Majestys
rules. At the same time, I can not but express my regret that the
governor and lieutenant-governor of these islands should have deemed
it necessary to inform me verbally that they and the officers of her
Britannic Majestys service were debarred from extending to us the cus-
tomary civilities of a public and social character, in consequence of our
being engaged in putting down a rebellion now raging against the
Union and our flag, but that when the difficulties terminated they would
extend to us every kindness that lay in their power. In answer, and
in great contrast to this, you will recollect, I replied that the British
officers and flag now in the waters of the United States, to my knowl-
edge, were receiving every kindness and attention that could be show-
ered upon them.
	I can not close this communication without adverting to the well-
known character of the steamers now lying in this harbor, who, as before
remarked, have avowed their intention to run the blockade, and who
receive every facility and enjoy the privileges of the British flag and
protection. II shall feel in duty bound to inform my Government of
the facts concerning them.
	With great consideration, I have the honor to be, sir, your most obe-
dient servant,

CHARLES WILKES,
[Acting] Rear-Admiral, Commanding U. S. West India Squadron.

	His Excellency H. ST. GEORGE ORD,
Governor and Commander in Chief of Bermuda

Page 499

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	499

Letter from Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding Wcst
India Squadron, to Secretary of the Navy, transmitting copies of instruc-
tions to vessels.
U.	S. S. WACHUSETT,
Havana, October 10, 1862.
	SIR:	I beg leave to enclose, for the information of the Department,
copies of instructions to the Octorara, Sonoma, and Tioga.
I am, very respectfully, yonr obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
	[Acting] Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEoN WELLES,
	Secretary of the Navy.
[Enclosures.]

U.	S. S. WACHUSETT
Off Bermuda, Octob~r 2, 1862.
	SIR: You will remain ernising off this island, having in company the
Tioga, until you will have left sufficient coal to make the New Providence
Channel or Havana, should you not, in the meantime, receive orders
from me.
	To the printed and written instructions of the Department you are
particularly referred, and special care will be taken to avoid in any way
the infringement of the Queens proclamation, or doing any act by which
the waters of the colonial territories or dependencies would be infringed.
As to your search and captnre of vessels, I have nothing to add, except
that it should be most rigid. In case you should make any captures
you will send them into one of the Northern ports for ad.judic~tion,
according to instructions. You wil keep a friendly intercourse with
Mr. Allen, our consul here, who will give you the latest information
respecting events. It is to [be] hoped you will suffer nothing to escape
you either going in or coining out. You will keep me advised of your
doings by every opportunity.
	I desire you to allow Commander I~odgers to read these orders and
make a copy of them.
1 am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
	[Acting] Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander T. H; STEVENS,
	Commanding Steamer Sonoma.


FLAG STEAMER WACHUSETT,
October 7, 1862.
	SIR:	You will await between Rocky Point and the Stirrup Cays the
return of the small sloop, and receive from her any pilot or pilots the
U. S. consul at Nassau may send to me. The price agreed upon with
Lanady, the person who has charge of the sloop and to execute the
mission into Nassau Harbor, is *80, if he returns with a pilot; if with
only a letter, $65, which you will order the paymaster to pay him in
specie. The pilots, if brought oft; you will receive on board and open
the letter which the consul directs to me; he stating the terms which
he has agreed upon, you will sanction and pay. I desire you to procure
all the information you can in relation to the vessels, both steamers and
sailing vessels, the routes they take, and the best channels. None but
good pilots can be of use in showing you these and fully informin

Page 500

500	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

you of all the circumstances, dangers, and passages that are practicable
for vessels both of light and heavy draft of water.
	I do not deem it necessary to point out to you the cruising ground;
it now lies around you, and after you get the pilot on board it will more
readily appear what is feasible and what is not.
	You will open all the communications directed to me from the consul
and make use of any information you may desire from them, keeping
them strictly confidential between ourselves. On or about the 12th 1
think you will see at Little Stirrup Cay the brig Urana, Cerubs mas-
ter, who is loaded with about 300 tons of coal; fill up from her. A few
days later, from the 15th to 20th, the Sonoma and Tioga will pass here.
If the coal has arrived, they will fill up and discharge the brig, when you
will pay the amount of charter party as agreed on, the captain produc-
ing his contract with me, and having complied with his engagements,
either in bills on the Secretary of the iNavy or in United States bills.
	For the Sonorna and TiQqa I enclose you orders. You will give their
commanders the information you possess and direct their cruising under
advisement with their officers.
	Coal (2,000 tons) will be deposited in Turkey [Turtle] Harbor, as I am
informed by the Navy Department, for the use of the squadron. Tur-
key [Turtle] Harbor is a few miles to the north of Carysfort light-house
on the Florida coast, to which you can resort for coal after the 25th of
this month.
	I shall probably return here in fifteen days. I may be delayed some
days longer. Write me to The llavannah, which will be my head.
quarters.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
	[Acting] Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander NAPOLEON COLLINS, U. S. Navy,
Commanding the Octorara.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, relative to disregard of neutrality regulations on the
part of some British officials at Nassau and Bermuda.

FLAG STEAMER WACHUSETT,
havana, October 11, 1862.
	SIR: I have to communicate to the Department the infraction of the
neutrality regulations by the commander of II. B. M. gunboat Bull Dog,
in transporting Captain Pegram and seven officers from Nassau to Ber-
muda, in July last, on their way to England to take charge of the 290
or other vessels about to fit out there under the secesh flag, and that I
have little doubt but [that] the officials, both at Nassau and Bermuda,
were aware of and assented to the violation. This information I have
from most reliable authority, those who knew Capt in Pegram and
Lieutenant Bennett well and witnessed their arrival at Bermuda and
embarkation on board the mail nacket for halifax. They staid but a
few hours at Bermuda.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
	[Acting] Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.

Ron. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 501

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	501

Letter from the U. S. consul at Nassau to Acting Rear-A dmiral Wilkes,
U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, giving description of
vessels about to run the blockade from Nassau, New Providence.

U.	S. CONSULATE kT NASSAU, NEW PROVIDENCE,
October 11, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the 7th instant, which caine to hand yesterday. I at once took meas-
ures to procure for you two trusty and efficient pilots from the list of
names in your letter, but they were all absent or sick but one, Stephen
Roberts, and he was just getting over a spree. This man is the most
efficient on your list, and, iu fact, he is the best Bahama pilot to be had
here. I have long had my eye on him for the purpose for which you
now require him. He has but this fault, of drinking too much when
he can procure liquor, but in his sober mood he not only bears an excel-
lent reputation as a man, but also as one of the very best pilots among
the Bahama cays and reefs. I therefore do not hesitate to send him
with the above forewarning. The other man whom I have selected,
Samuel Pintard, has also been well recommended to me, more particu-
larly by the captain of the vessel which brought me your note. Pin-
tard is said to be a good pilot and a sober and trusty man.
	I proceed to a description of the vessels now here and about to run
the blockade.
	No. 1. Steamer Scotia. Long, low, iron vessel, schooner rigged; two
pipes athwart ship; side-wheel~ iiot very fast, and with a dilapidated
engine; painted light lead color,bright red bottom; sails soon; has
run the blockade once.
	No. 2. Steamer Leopard. Much the same kind of vessel as No. 1.
Has one pipe, which, with her two masts, rakes very much; is coaled
up, ready for sea.
	No. 3. Steamer Anglia. Three-masted rig; side-wheel; hull black,
with white paddle boxes; left some time since for the Southern States,
but was scared back once by a U. S. cruiser, and once by the yellow
fever breaking out among her crew; has on board a valuable cargo,
contraband of war.
	No.4. BrigEannieLewis. Brigantine, with inaintopsail and topgallant
sail. Has on board a lot of contraband, but her destination is unknown.
Sails unbent and not likely to leave port soon. There are several
small schooners and sloops, names unknown, with salt and provisions,
ready to try their chances. One schooner is named the Equal, her
secesh owner, Ilius, being now here, and I believe she is intended for
the Southern ports.
	Your advent off this port gave rise to many rumors and newspaper
remarks and street-corner speculations. I send you the local papers.
I hear that a large British-Confederate steamer is on the south side of
this island, with a large cargo destined for the rebel market. Nassau
is as strongly secession as Charleston to-day, and has been for the past
year, and I hope and pray that your presence in these waters will put
a full stop to the blockade running and lessen the ridicule vented upon
our flags by the Conchs at every fresh arrival from Dixie.
	A small tugboat, called the ]Jliariner, arrived the day after you left,
direct from Wilmington, loaded with cotton. She reported the safe
arrival of the notorious blockade runner, the steamer Kate, on her
fortieth (!),I believe, successful passage through our blockading fleets.
	I do not think of any further information that would benefit you or
the country, and as to the point for our mutual communications, 

Page 502

502	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

know of none better than off the Hole in tim Wall, ui iless you desire
to come to off this port, prior to which the governor has insisted that
his gracious permission is requisite.
	Wishing you every success and all prosperity,
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SAML. WHITING,
U.	S. Consul.
	[Acting] Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
U.	S. West India Squadron.


Letter from Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
~ the governor of Bermuda, West Indies, denying any inten-
tional infringement of the regulations of her Majestys Government.

U.	S. S. SONONA,
Off Bermuda, October 11, 18G2.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the communica-
tion of your Excellency of yesterdays date.
	The boat to which you refer as having landed in the harbor of St.
George was one of the boats of the U. S. S. Sonoma, which I have the
honor to command, and was sent on shore for the purpose of communi-
eating with the United States consul on matters pertaining to the
interests of the Government of the United States. She was sent with-
out any intention of violating any of the principles embraced in the
proclamation of her Majesty the Queen, nor had I reason to suppose
there could be any infringement of the laws or regulations of her Maj-
estys Government in the landing of a boat from an American man-of-
war, in a harbor of her Majestys possessions, between whose Govern-
ment and that of my own peaceful relations exist.
I have the honor to be, very respect rully, your obedient servant,
T.	H. STEVENS,
	Commander, U. S. Navy, Commanding U. S. S. Sonoma.
His Excellency H. ST. GEORGE ORB,
Governor and Commander in Chief of Bermuda.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, f the detention ~f blockade runners by his arrival at
Bermuda, and of the attitude of authorities toward officers of the United
States vessels.
FLAG STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Havana, October 12, 18G2.
	DEAR SIR: I have been unable to write you since I left Bermuda,
from which place I last wrote. My arrival at Bermuda was quite oppor-
tune. I found there seven steamers awaiting in the harbor of St. George
under the British flag which had run or intended to run the blockade,
three of them ready to depart, and avowed openly their intention to run
the blockade, having a large amount of arms, ammunition, and other
contiz~aband articles on board. Our arrival put a stop to their departure,
and unrew them and their agents on shore in great consternation. We
anchored in the outer roads after dark and then entered the harbor early
the next morning, with the Wachusett and Tioga, leaving the Sonoma
to watch outside for any others, which were expected daily. Among
them was the Eureka [Enrica], or 290. On our entrance no national ifa

Page 503

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	503

was hoisted at any flagstaffs on the forts, and after I had been at anchor
some two hours, the governors yacht came down from the west end and
a dispatch was sent to me by a common person who had neither rank
or station, while the governors secretary was on board the yacht. The
dispatch was a printed document containing extract from her Majesty~s
proclamation relative to the extent of the permission or liberty allowed
us of making repairs and taking in coal. I enclose it, as it was omitted
to be sent when the correspondence which subsequently took place was
forwarded to you.
	I must confess I was a little in doubt how to act, but in a few
minutes made up my mind to acknowledge the receipt of the dispatch
and to inform the governor I would call upon him that afternoon,
sealed and sent it by the same messenger. I called on him, thongh it
was 12 miles distant; was received with every l)oliteness and accorded
all I wished relative to repairs and coaling. It was expressly stated
then to him I had~three vessels; that although the repairs were light
they were needful. In the meantime I determined that the omis-
sion to hoist their flag and to forward his dispatch by a suitable mes-
senger might have heen accidental; I would not omit to act with all due
courtesy to the nation whose port we had visited, and sent my flag
lienten ant to tender a salute, if it would be answered. After some little
delay, in consequence of the absence of the lieutenant-governor, it was
accepted, and the salute returned gun for gun. This took place on
Saturday, and Sunday was allowed to be a day of rest, so we did 110
work. During this time I became aware that much influence was
being nsed to endeavor to drive ns from the port and curtail our privi-
leges nnder her Majestys proclamation to the most confined limits.
The two vessels (tlie Wachusett and Tioga) began to coal on Monday
and continued, employing the natives for that purpose. It was slow
progress, and what might have been done in a few hours at home
reqnired many at Bermuda. The governor came down on Tuesday and
sent his respects to know if I could receive him on board at 1:30 oclock
or when; the hour suiting me, I acceded to it and accordingly pre-
pared to receive him, which we did suitably to his rank and station.
The salute was returned by the fort.
	During this visit, in which he was accompanied by the lieutenant-
governor and his aid, the lieutenant-governor took occasion to apolo-
gize and explain away their failure on our arrival to display their flag,
and assured me the sergeant in charge had been severely punished for
his neglecting to do so. I told him I regretted that any one should be
pnnished, but it had surprised me that such an observance had been
omitted in a British port, and passed it oft; accepting, of course, his
apology, although I felt satisfied he it was who was to blame, as he is
what the people of Bermuda call a rank secessionist. During the con-
versation the governor reverted to the time of our leaving, which he
desired to have distinctly stated, that her Britannic Majestys rules might
be carried out. So far as the IVachusett and Tioga were concerned I
could tell him within an hour; but as to the ,S~onorna, which vessel was
outside, it was requisite I should see her commander first, and would
communicate with him before night, and he desired I would write
through the consul and let him know. This laccordingly did, and shortly
afterward Commander Stevens reported to me that H. B. M. S. Desperate
had sent an officer on board to say the governor had ordered that his
vessel must either go into port then or weigh anchor and stand off. I
told Commander Stevens to stay where he was, and where I had ordered
him, and also to tell the British lieutenant the same; he had bee

Page 504

504	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

ordered there preparatory to coming in port in the morning, which he
would do. This was all communicated to the governor by an aid, who
made the journey to Hamilton during the night, and was on board the
Wachusett by 7 oclock with dispatch and request to see me. I was
dressing, and after leisurely performing that operation, I received him.
It was the dispatch of 1st October sent you. His message was to tell
me the governor had not understood the AS~onorna was to coal, but only
make repairs. I said it could not be, for my note through the consul,
[from] which I read an extract, expressly referred to repairs and coal-
ing, and that the vessel had come into port and was then hauling to the
wharf, and if the governor desired to stop her, I must have it from
himself in writing. The Sonoma went on coaling. At noon the Wachu-
sett was getting up steam when several of her tubes began to leak and
the fires of that boiler were nearly extinguished. This caused my note
to the governor in which I sent the engineers report.
	The governors second dispatch came to me late in the afternoon by
the hand of his secretary, according inc permission which I had not
asked, and contained many objectionable features; and the conversa-
tion I had with his secretary satisfied me that the governor had been
influenced to endeavor to give a misconstruction to the understanding
between us, about which there could be no mistake, and to which Coin-
mnander Wyman was a witness. Under the hints thrown out that those
under my command had intentionally infringed her Majestys rules, I
wrote him my last dispatch the same evening and came to the deter-
mination to give the Sonoma and Tioga orders to remain off the island
as long as they could, reserving only enough coal to reach The Havan-
nah. Many little annoyances were attempted, and no attentions what-
ever, except by two or three gentlemen and their families, were
extended to us. They are all a pack of secessionists, and were in
hopes to get rid of us, but, notwithstanding, we procured all we wanted,
and they will find theniselves sadly mis[taken], at least for some weeks
after I left the island, which was on the 2d October, at night. In four
days we made the Abaco point, where I fell in with the Octorara,
agreeably to my orders to her. I remained a day with her and then
left her to cruise oft and on the Abaco, to secure pilots and visit, when
the sea would permit, Man of War Cay and the wreck of the Adiron-
dacic, as you desired. The Octorara will be able to cruise there twenty
days, and will fill up her coal from the brig I chartered at Bermuda,
which vessel I directed to anchor at Little Stirrup Cay, where she will
also remain for the Sonoma and Tioga to coal from. I thence directed
the Wachusett to the Florida coast, near Carysfort light-house, to visit
Turtle Harbor (not Turkey Harbor) and 4~ miles to the northward of
the Carysfort light-house. In moving down the reef between Cape
Florida light and Carysfort, the Wachusett went on a coral bunch [beach],
where she lay about one-half hour, and then was got afloat without
injury. Having lost some time, and it being late in the afternoon, I
caused her course toward this port, off which we arrived the next even-
ing all well.
	I can not close this note without naming to you the satisfactory inter-
course I had with our consul, Mr. C. M. Allen, and the aid and infor-
mation he gave me.
Very truly and respectfully, yours,
CHARLES WILKES,
[Acting] Rear-Admiral, Commanding We~t India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 505

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	505

General report oJ Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, command-
ing West India AS~quadron, of affairs on that station.

FLAG STEAMER WACHUSETT,
At Havana, Cuba, October 13, 1862.
	DEAR SIR: In my last note I detailed to you the circumstances attend-
ing my visit to Bermuda and the state of feeling which existed there.
On my arrival here I found great excitement in consequence of the
destruction of the Blanche, steamer, being run ashore and fired by one
of our vessels of war a few days since, probably the Montgomery, Com-
mander Hunter, who communicated with our consul-general a few hours
previously. This unwarrantable act was at first laid to me or one of
my squadron, and was promptly brought to my notice by the governor-
general through his principal staff officer, shortly after I was informed
of it by our consul-general. I of course at once denied any knowledge of
it, or sanction of such an act and infringel2nent of the waters of Spanish
territory, and a~ promptly asked ~ personal interview of the captain-
general. which lie accorded to me at 11 oclock the next day. This
intercourse took place, and resulted in my satisfying him that whoever
committed the act, it would be disapproved of by my Government and
due reparation made. That I could assure him it was contrary to all
intructions issued by you and would be visited on the head of the officer
whoever he might be; that my instructions were very positive to avoid
any act which would give umbrage to the Spanish nation or invade
their territory, and had it been done by any officer under my command
I would immediately send him home under arrest. He seemed greatly
relieved and felt satisfied, as he assured me, with my views and disap-
proval of the act. At the same time I assured him that I could not
but doubt that the outrage was not as great as was represented, and
hoped it would prove so when the truth came to be known, but that
I could assure him that no such act should be repeated by any vessel
under my command, knowing well, as I did, the desire of my Govern-
m~iit to preserve the most frieiidly relations with that of Spain. I did
this with a desire to arrest every further cause of excitement and under
it to induce them to put restrictions on us here of which the consul-
general felt much apprehension might be the result. The difficulty is,
however, now over and an interchange of courtesies has taken place.
The governor-general sent the commander of the forces and his chief
of staff to assure me that such was the case, and to express to me his
satisfaction and good will. It affords me pleasure, as I have no doubt
it will you, that all and every misunderstanding has been avoided and
our relations maintained.
	Now, about my plans and my squadron. I have not yet had commu-
nication with the Dacotak, Cirnarron, or Santiago de Cuba, nor have I
heard anything of the Vanderbilt. The former is, I understand, cruis-
ing on the north side of Cuba. In a few days she will probably return
here to coal. There is a great deal of work to be done and I am satis-
fied I shall want more vessels to perform it effectually and well. There
are very many vessels (steamers) now engaged running the blockade,
and they consider they can do it with impunity. I am fully confident
that with a sufficient force I can put a stop to it, or make it so difficult
as will cause it to cease.
	It is proper that I should state the situation of things in the West
Indies as far as my enquiries have led me to a knowledge of the intention
of the Confederates. They have sent a number of officers to take com-
mand of vessels of war, built or building in England, to prey upon ou

Page 506

506	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

commerce, as is reported to have been their intention as respectsthe 290,
or Eureka [Enrica], arid the Oreto; and although the Department has
only brought to my notice these two, yet I have a knowledge of several.
The officers assigned to them have already been gone some time and
arrived in England. Pegram is a ease with seven officers who went in
the British gunboat Bull Dog from Nassau to Bermuda, and thence took
passage for Halifax. Ap Catesby Jones is another case. At the last
accounts he was at Nassau with a set of officers, having arrived there
in a pilot boat belonging to Nassau, and others are, or have departed
from this place for similar purposes, all tending to show a certainty
that the Confederates are looking to the disturbance of our commerce,
and especially in the West Indies, which they no doubt know to be one
of our most vulnerable points. This is daily canvassed in this port
among those who are most likely to be well informed upon the inten-
tions of the rebels, and I think we may as well take timely warning to
counteract their movements. The California steamer is one object that
has and will, no doubt, claim their first notice. Hitherto they have
had no vessels of sufficient speed to attempt their capture, but they
arebecoming more confident in having acquired a betterelassof steamers
and those of high speed, and if we intend effectually to intercept, cap-
ture, and destroy them, it behooves us to extend in numbers and force
as well as speed. There are positions which I desire to occupy which
their vessels must pass or resort to, of which I am fast obtaining informa-
tion. It is utterly useless for us to attempt to cruise successfully at
these points with single steamers and effectually put a stop to their
proceedings. They keep an accurate account of the time of our vessels
coaling, and if it becomes known when the men-of-war have gone they
can calculate the chances of her withdrawal as accurately as I can and
then take their chance. Two of the British whitewashed steamers
ran unseen past the Bahia Honda, off which one of our men-of-war had
been cruising, but had left to coal at Key West, for only a. couple of
days. This could not have happened if our vessels should cruise in
pairs, as was and is my intention to employ those under my command,
and have them regularly relieved, so as to maintain a constant watch
over these stations. There is another point of great interest also; I
mean the slave trade connected with this island. There have been
upward of 10,000 Africans imported within the last few months, and
one cargo was landed within a short distance of this port. Both the
north and south shores of the island require attention to intercept this
nefarious traffic, therefore you may readily see that it requires more
vessels than you have assigned to my command to perform those duties
embraced in my instructions. All energy will be used to effect the
object of the Department, but I should not have less than twelve ves-
sels, and all should be of the highest speed to insure success and avoid
an unequal contest on our part. I am confident when I assure the
Department that they will be satisfied with the results as to our com-
mercial community in the security they will enjoy, and convoy in some
cases may be required. The Department will therefore readily perceive
the necessity which exists without my going more into details. I have
a request to make that any vessels that may be ordered to join the
other squa4rons in the gulf will be instructed to avoid any acts of
violence within the neutrality of the Spanish waters, as it will com-
promise my position now with this Government, and render those
who are friendly disposed to our cause inimical, and my exertions
here to prodrice and maintain harmony ineffectual. I have immedi-
ate reference now to such acts as the Montgomery has committed, an

Page 507

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	507

which at first assui~ied appearances of some evil foreboding, but are
now at rest.
	It is my intention to leave this to-morrow and cruise for two or three
vessels flow daily exl)ected to arrive and whom I entertain some hopes
of being able to intercept. The fever at this point is no longer consid-
ered an epidemic, but still there are eases of it in the harbor. Feeling
the necessity of having early corn municatioiis with our consul-genera],
Mr. Shufeldt, I feel it incumbent on inc to come in and ascertain the
position of things.
	I shall keep you advised, by every opportunity, of my proceeding and
the situation of things appertainiiig to my command.
I am, with great respect, yours,
CHARLES WILKES,
[Acting] Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.




Order of Captain Pickering, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge,
to Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora,to
proceed to Lisbon, Portugal, for instructions as to movements for pro-
tection of commerce.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Payai, October 14, 1862.
	SIR: So soon as you have satisfied yourself that the rebel steamer
Alabama has left the vicinity of the Azores v
Tuscarora to Lisbon, Portugal, for the ~, ou will proceed with the
purpose of conferring with and
obtaining such information from the U. S. minister, James E. Harvey,
as may guide your future movements for the protection of our commerce
against rebel cruisers.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERING,
	Commander T. AUGUSTUS CRAVEN,	C~aptain.
Commanding U. S. Steam Sloop Tuscarora.




Letter from Commander Schencic, U. S. Navy, commandinq U. S. frigate
St. Lawrence, regarding the movements of U. S. S. Dacotah and Santiago
de Cuba.

U.	S. FRIGATE ST. LAWRENCE,
Key West, October 15, 1862.
	SIR:	Admiral Larduer is too ill to answer your enquiries with regard
to the Dacotah and Santiayo dc Cuba. Both these vessels left here
yesterday afternoon, the 1)acotah with some twenty cases of fever on
board, to run to the northward, and if the health of her crew did not
inprove, she will probably proceed to some northern port, otherwise
sue will return to this port. The Sanii~go de Cuba left here with ten
day~ coal, wit Ii a hope of fulling in with you. She is now and has
been perfectly healthy

Page 508

508	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	We hope the fever is abating. This ship has lost in all, officers and
men, 35.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	FINDLAY SCHENOK,

Commander.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES.

	Neither of the above ships had a~iy order from Admiral Lardner.
The Dacotah is acting nuder the advice of Fleet Surgeon Homer and
Surgeon Bloodgood.



Letter from the president Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company to the
Secretary of the Navy,requesting that vessels be sent in search of C. S. S.
Alabama.

NEw YORK, [October] 16, 1862.
	We earnestly request that vessels may be sent iu search of the rebel
steamer A labama forthwith. Her depredations upon American com-
merce are very heavy. She is in the track of European bound vessels.
We send a communication by mail to-day giving her description and
whereabouts.
J.	D. JONES,
President Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.



[Telegram.]


NAVY DEPARTMENT, October 17 1862.

	The San Jacinto sailed the 15th from Boston. Let her be coaled at
Hampton Roads ready for the pursuit of the 290. Further orders Sun-
day morning. The State of Georgia requires three months repairs.

GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
	Acting Rear-Admiral S. P. LEE,
Commanding North Atlantic Blockading Squadron, Newport News.



Letter from the U. S. consul at Gibraltar to the Secretary of the Navy,
transmitting copy of letter to the U. S. minister to England, containing
account of murder committed on board C. S. S. Sumter.

CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Gibraltar, October 18, 1862.
	SIR: For the information of your iDepartinent, I have the honor to
transmit herewith a copy of a communication I addressed yesterday
to Mr. Adams, our minister in England, which gives the particulars of
the late tragedy on board the rebel steamer Sumter, still anchored in
this port.
	At the coroners inquest upon view of the body of William Andrews,
late in charge of the Sumter, the jury returned a verdict of willful
murder against Joseph Hester, second officer of that craft, who remain

Page 509

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	509

in jail, and will probably be tried for murder next sessions. I now hear
he is from Georgia and not from South Carolina.
	The U. S. storeship Release remains oft Algeciras.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
HORATIO J. SPRAGUE,
U.	S. Consul.
Hon. SECRETARY NAVY OF THE UNITED STATES,
Washington City.
[Enc~osure.1

CONSULATE OF THE UNiTED STATES OF AMERICA,
Gibraltar, October 17, 1862.
	SIR:	I addressed your Excellency a telegram yesterday, as annexed,
to acquaint you of a terrible tragedy which took place on board of the
steamer Sumter ii this port on the evening of the 15th instant.
	As you are aware, this steamer was in charge of two officers and a
sufficient number of hands to take care of her while in port. Between
7 and 8 oclock that evening, Hester, the second officer, deliberately
shot the officer in command, named Andrews, with a revolver, while
thQ latter was lying in his berth. He expired almost immediately, three
shots from the revolver having been fired into his body. The criiuinal
has been airested and is now in jail in the hands of justice. A coro-
ners inquest has been held on the body of the deceased, but I have
not yet obtained the particulars. The deceased was buried this morn-
ing. Three British officers of the One hundredth Canada Regiment were
present at the funeral, also Mr. IR. 0. Joyce, a British merchant in this
city, who was the party that supplied the Sumter with an anchor on
her first appearance at this port.
	From what I can gather it would seem as if Hester had been sims-
pected by his superior officer of stealing articles from the Sumter, and
this induced him to commit the murder. This Hester I believe belongs
to South Carolina. He was discharged from a British vessel at this
port many months since, and after awhile he took himself on board of
the Sumter, where he was received with open arms as a Southerner,
and immediately made a petty officer.
	The Sumter is now in charge of her sergeant of marines. I hear
nothing about the Kearsarge or Tuscarora since they left this station
in pursuit of Semmes. The Constellation was last at Messina. The
storeship Release is at anchor off Algeciras watching the Sumter and
will remain in this neighborhood till further orders.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
HORATIO J. SPRAGUE,
U.	S. Consul.
	His Excellency C. F. ADAMS,
U. S. Minister, London.



Instructions from the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral Lee,
U.	S. Navy, commanding North Atlantic Blockading Squadron, relative
to search for C. S. S. Alabama (290).

NAVY DEPARTMENT, October 19, 1862.
	SIR:	I transmit herewith photographs of the rebel steamer 290, or
Alabama, which has recently destroyed a number of American vessels,
most of them in the vicinity of the Western Islands. The latest infoi

Page 510

510	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

mation we have from the 290 is of the destruction of the Emily Earn-
ham and the Brilliant, on the 3 dinstant,in latitude 400, longitude
500 30.
	Captain Geo. ilagar, late master of the Brilliant, states that it is
understood that an English vessel is to meet the 290 off Cape Breton,
Nova Scotia, in all of this month, with letters, papers, etc., from the
rebel Government, also to obtain from this s me vessel two more large
rifled guns and to coal from her either in one of the uninhabited harbors
on the N. E. coast or at Picton, Nova Scotia.
	The Department directs that you will dispatch at once the steamer
San Jacinto to the vicinity of Cape Breton in search of the 290. After
cruising until her coal is exhausted, she can replenish her supply at
some point in that locality, from which she will telegraph the Depart-
ment, and enable it to give any additional orders it may wish to.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Rear-Admiral S. P. LEE,
Commanding North Atlantic Blockading Squadron,
Old Point Comfort, Va.


Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Lee, U. S. N commanding the North
Atlantic Blockading Squadron, to Commander Ronekendorif, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. S. San Jacinto, to proceed to Hampton Roads,
Virginia.
U.	S. FLAGSHIP MINNESOTA,
Off Newport News, Va., October 19, 1862.
	SIR:	Proceed with the U. S. S. San Jacinto under your command to
Hampton Roads immediately and report to me for further orders. Use
all possible dispatch.
Respectfully, yours,
S.	P. LEE,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Comdg. N. Atlantic Blockading Squadron.
Commander WM. RONCKENDORFF, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. San Jacinto, off Wilmington.



Instructions from the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral
Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, relative to
search for C. S. S. Alabama (290).

NAVY DEPARTMENT, October 19, 1862.
	SIR: I transmit herewith photographs of the rebel steamer 290, or
Alabama, which has recently destroyed a number of American vessels,
most of them in the vicinity of the Western Islands.
	The latest information we have from the 290 is of the destruction of
the Emily Earnum amid the Brilliant, on the 3d instant, in latitude
400, longitude 500 30. The master of the Brilliant, Captain liagar,
has furnished a statement with regard to the 290 from which the fol-
lowing extract is taken, but should not be made public, viz:
	Her rendezvous and places where letters are to be sent to her are Terceira (West-
ern lslands), Porto Praya (Cape Verde Islands), Bermuda, Nassau, Martinkiue, an

Page 511

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	511

from an English vessel that is to meet her in all this month off Cape Breton, Nova
Scotia, with letters, papers, and orders from the Confederate Government. She is
gradually working her way to the latter place to take on board two more large
rifled guns from the above vessel, an is either to coal from her in one of the unin-
habited harbors on that coast or at Picton, Nova Scotia, when, as winter comes on,
she will cruise in a more southern latitude. It was understood on board that she
would call at one of these places as often as once in three months for letters, papers,
and orders. A couple of heavily armed gunboats dispatched at once to cruise off
Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, for a few weeks would be very apt to fail in with her.

	The Department relies upon your judgment to make such disposition
of the vessels of your squadron as may lead to the capture of this
piratical steamer.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHAS. WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron, Providence Channels.




Report of Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Sonorna,
of the boarding and examination of British steamer Gladiator.

U. S. S. SONOiwA,
Havana, October 19, 18G2.
	SIR: In obedience to your orders, I remained, in company with the
Tioga, cruising off the island of Bermuda until we had remaining but
sufficient coal to carry us to Havana.
	Upon arriving off Stirrup Cay I found the Octorara, Commander
Collins, and received your orders of October 7. As I had only suffi-
cient coal to carry me to Havana, and as there was no probability of
the Urbanna [Urana] arriving in that locality for ten days to come, I
concluded, after consultation with Commander Collins, and after
remaining two days cruising in company with him, to proceed to this
place for the purpose of filling up with coal.
	In connection with my operations off Bermuda I have to report the
following:
	On Sunday morning, the 5th October, discovered at daylight the
steamer Ouachita steaming round St. Catherine Point. I dispatched
the Tioga to the west of the island for the purpose of guarding the
entrance on that side, giving to Commander Rodgers discretionary
orders in the premises.
	Monday morning, October 6, at 2:15 a. in., boarded the English mail
steamer Mierlin under the following circumstances: St. David Head
then bearing W. by N., distant about 6 miles, discovered a steamer
bearing S.W. by W.; immediately gave chase to her. As we approached
she altered her course, put out all her lights, fired up heavily, and stood
inshore. Altered our course to intercept her, went to quarters, fired a
gun to leeward, hove her to (at 2:45 a. in.), boarded the Merlin and
examined her papers, which were found all correct.
	On Tuesday, October 7, about noon, H. B. M. S. Desperate made her
appearance off St. Catherine Point and steamed down the narrows for
the mouth of the harbor of St. George, where she remained until about
4 oclock, when she was reported to be underway and heading directl

Page 512

512	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

for us. Shortly after a lead-colored steamer, which afterwards proved
to be the Gladiator, came out of the harbor and took position on the
port quarter of the Desperate, both steering to the eastward. Cleared
for action and steamed siowiy ahead in the same general direction,
altering our course to intercept the Gladiator, until 4:30 p~ m~, when,
being about 4 miles from the nearest land and then about 2 cables
length from the Gladiator, laid the Sonoma right across her bow, hailed
her, enquired her name, ordered her to heave to, which she did imme-
diately; boarded her, examined her papers thoroughly, particularly her
bills of lading. The boarding officer finding her cargo to consist of
519 bales of cotton and 52 barrels of rosin, and all her papers correct,
he returned on board the Sonorna, and the Gladiator was allowed to pro-
ceed. At this time the Desperate, which was then distant about half
a mile, altered her course and steered directly for the Gladiator until
within about 500 yards of her, seemingly with the intent of opposing
our action, bnt otherwise no demonstration was made, although 1 after-
wards learned from the consul the affair produced great excitement on
shore, the stores all being closed, business suspended, and the hills
covered with the inhabitants of the island, in anticipation of a collision
between the Sonoma and Desperate. While the boat was shoving off
to board the Gladiator two steamers, the Harriet Pinelcney and Minho,
were discovered outside the harbor, the former standing to the south~
ward and the latter toward St. Catherine Point. I immediately gave
orders for a full head of steam and as soon as the boarding boat returned
stood down for the Harriet iPinekney at full speed and gained rapidly
upon her, the Pinekney, although then below Castle Harbor, discover-
ing which, turned round and hnrried back to the harbor, the ]I~Jiinho also
returning, and both vessels anchoring inside. The Desperate, after
acknowledging a color salute from the Gladiator, stood in and anchored
in the narrows. It was evidently the intention of the parties interested
in these susnected steamers to avail themselves of the coming out of
the Gladiator under convoy of the Desperate to get one of their steam-
ers to sea, but our rapid and prompt pursuit of the Pinekney, much to
their - discomfiture, compelled them both to return and abandon their
project.
	On the 8th October the Tioga rejoined me, and anticipating renewed
efforts on their part to get to sea, Captain Rodgers remained in com-
pany with me.
	On the 9th of October, having occasion to communicate with the
U.S. consul,I sent in one of our cutters in charge of Masters Mate
Van Zandt, which elicited a communication from the governor, a copy
of which, with my reply,* I enclose herewith.
	Having learned on the evening of the 11th that the ]iiliinho had left
her anchorage with the purpose of attempting one of the western pas-
sages, Captain Rodgers in the Tioga went round to intercept her, but
on joining company with him the next night he reported he had seen
nothing of her. Mr. Allen, who visited the Sonoma Sumiday morning,
was of the opinion from all he could learn that she had anchored in
one of the small harbors inside the reef, but as we sailed that evening
1 could learn nothing definite in relation to her movements.
	Sunday morning boarded off the entrance of the harbor the Amen-
can ship Harrisbnrgh, from Cardiff, loaded with coal for Bermuda, the
captain of which, after heaving to as ordered, filled away again as our
boarding boat was approaching and kept on his course until brought to
by a blank cartridge and the threat of being fired into, when he was
~~oe p. 502

Page 513

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	513

boarded and his papers found to be correct. The eaptain~s name is
Wiswell.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	T. EL STEVENS,
	hear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Commanding West india Squadron.



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of movements of vessels of the squadron and regard-
ing affairs at Nassau, New Providence.

FLAG STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Havana, October 20, 18G2.
	IDEAR SIR: Day before yesterday we returned here from a short
cruise in search of the Dacotah and Santiago de Cuba, which vessels I
fonnd on touching off Key West had just left there, the former with
the fever on board, the latter on a cruise of ten days. I was greatly
disappointed in not seeing them, although I am [informed] they sailed
in search of this steamer, and yet have made no stop at this port to
enquire. 1 do not know what orders the Department sent them and
where to join me. The Dacotah, I learn, with a fcw cases of fever on
board, returned to Key West very imprudently to co 1, and has been
recommended to go to the northward by the physicians, with some seven-
teen cases on board. I intended to send her to relieve the Gemsbok, off
Berm uda, where she could have had a total change of climate and which
would probably have restored her crew. The Cimarron has not as yet
been heard of.
	The want of these vessels interferes greatly with my plans, but I
shall do what I can. It is necessary that 11 should search all the cays
lying on the Bahama Banks, which are comparatively unknown to. any
but the wreckers, and which have afforded the places for the overhaul
and outfit of several of the secesh vessels, and I understand they are
to have depots of coal as well as arms and ammunition sent from time
to time from Nassau. There is a large amount of everything stored at
Nassau. I have the New Providence Channels well guarded, but
smaller vessels are reported, drawing but a few feet of water, which
frequently are known to depart for a few days with munitions of war.
The Isle Verde or Cay Verde, at the extreme eastern edge of the Great
Bahama Bank, is one of these, and where it is supposed the Oreto took
in her guns, etc. Hitherto there has been no search made of these
cays, many of which are uninhabited and only occasionally stopped at
by the wreckers. When I next write you I may be able to tell you
more about these places and the dodges the Confederates expect to
effect and to counteract.
Very respectfully, yours,
CHARLES WILKES,
[Acting] Rear-Admiral, Coin manding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.
	P.	S.I must add another small sheet to this letter to inform you
that the information I have acquired here leads me to the belief that it
	123A	3

Page 514

514	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

is the intention of the Confederates to concentrate all the force they
can at Mobile in order to liberate that port from the blockade, and that
they have given notice to this effect from or through their agents to
both the French and English merchants. The outfitting of so many
with iron for ironclad vessels seems to warrant the belief that at Mobile
they are endeavoring to construct this kind of vessels to cope with
those on the blockade. We know they are purchasing a better class of
vessels for war purposes, and that they fit them at some one of the
cays- This, as I have informed you, I shall look to closely. Should
they succeed in mustering a sufficient force to enable them to pass the
blockading vessels, the port of Mobile would be considered as safe to
resort to by both English and French vessels, and they would undoubt-
edly endeavor to l)rotect them by both English and French men-of-war
when on the high seas. There appears a belief here that the Confed-
erate Government has a treaty or agreement with the French and
English governments to forward their cotton from both Mobile and
Charleston, and from which they have drawn considerable funds. It
is thought some 200,000 bales have gone forward on this arrangement,
but my information does not yet warrant me in speaking positively on
this subject, or the extent to which it is intended to endeavor to carry
it out.
I am, respectfully,
C.	W.


Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Captain ]liiicKinstry, commanding U. S. S. Dacotah,
to cruise for interception of Confederate vessels.

FLM~ STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Havana, October 20, 18G2.
	SIR:	If the sickness has abated sufficiently in your vessel to cruise
still in these seas, you will immediately fill up with coal and proceed to
the Old Bamaha Channel as far as off Sagua la Grande, thence westward
to Cardenas and Matauzas, where you will remain till ffirther orders
from me. The object in sending you to this part of the Old Bahama
Channel is to intercept any one of the many Confederate privateers
that are expected to arrive in these waters, and who will touch off one
or the other of the above places in order to get instructions from the
Confederate agents throngh the telegraph Have communication
whenever it is possible with our consuls at tiese points, who will give
you information that may be relied upon in relation to the objects of
yonr cruise above stated. Should the information you may obtaiu be
of such a nature as to afford you reasonable hope of finding Confederate
vessels at other points, you will consider yourself at liberty to follow
them, returning to your station as soon as possible. Keep me advised
through the consuls of your whereabouts, and economize your coal as
much as possible.
	I design having your vessel relieved by another by the 10th or 12th of
November, at which time you will probably find me, or orders, at this port.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ChARLES WILKES,
	[Acting] Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India~ Squadron.
Captain J. P. MCKINSTRY,
Commanding Steamer Dacotah, West India Squadron

Page 515

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
515
Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Cay-
endy, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. bark Gemsbok, to cruise for the
protection of coal vessels.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, October 21, 1862.
	Siu:	On the receipt hereof, you will proceed with the U. S. bark
Gemsbok to Turtle Harbor, about 7 miles above Carysfort Light, and
remain there for the protection of the coal ships to be sent to that
point to supply coal for the vessels of the West India Squadron,
Acting Rear-Admiral Charles Wilkes, to whom you will report by
letter.
I am, respectfully. your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant EDWARD CAYENDY,
Commanding U. S. Bark Gemsbok, Port Royal, S. C.




Letter from the U. S. consul at Bermuda, West Indies, to Acting Rear-
Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron,
reporting the presence of the Confederate steamer Herald in that port.

U.	S. CONSULATE, Bermuda, October 21, 1862.
	SIR:	The brig Urana is now ready and is to leave to-day. The long
delay has been caused by the east wind, which prevented her getting
here for two weeks after you left. I hope she will arrive in time to
meet your wants. The steamer Herald, four days from Charleston,
with cotton, arrived here on the 17th instant. She is under command
of Coxetter. She brings a number of Dassengers. among which is
Lieutenant Maury.
	Our Army has gained a decided victory over Van Dorn and Price at
Corinth. There have several vessels arrived here with coal for the
Southern steamers since you lelt. They have n0w about 3,000 tons.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
	C. M. ALLEN,
	Rear-Admiral WILKES,	U. S. Consul.
Commanding U. S. West India Squadron, West indies.




Report of Commander Rodgers, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tioga,
of cruise in search of suspicious vessels in the vicinity of the West Indies.

U.	S. S. TIOGA,
Off Havana, October 22, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report my arrival off this port with the
vessel under my command. After your departure from Bermuda, on
the 2d instant, I continued to cruise off that island with the Sonoma.
Nothing occurred worthy of note until Sunday, the 5th, when, receivin

Page 516

516	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

information that the Ouachita (the small, light-colored steamer) was
about trying to get out through Chub Cut, by direction of Captain
Stevens I went around there to remain until the next day and pre-
vented her leaving.
	On Tuesday, the 7th, the Gladiator came out from St. George, con-
voyed by II. B. M. S. Desperate. Captain Stevens boarded her when
outside of the marine league. While [he] was doing so he perceived
the Harriet Pinckney leaving the harbor. He ascertained that the
cargo and papers of the Gladiator were correct, and then steered for
the Harriet Pinckmey, when that vessel went back to the harbor. On
the 8th I rejoined Captain Stevens. During my absence a large screw
steamer had arrived off the harbor at night. Captain Stevens pro-
ceeded to speak her, when she extinguished her lights and ran off rap-
idly for the harbor. He fired a gun from the side opposite the vessel,
when she stopped. He then hailed her and was answered that it was
the royal mail steamer Merlin. Having sent a boat alongside and ascer-
tained the report to be correct, the circumstances rendering it very
doubtful, he allowed her to proceed. On the 10th I spoke the British
schooner Alert, from Halifax, bound to Bermuda, and obtained some
papers from her. On the same day H. B. N. S. Plover came out, and
an officer from her came on board and handed me a document from
Colonel Ord, governor of Bermuda, informing me that no communica-
tion by our boats could be had with the shore except by his permission,
first obtained. On the evening of the 11th I received information that
the lllinho was trying to get out through Murray Anchorage. My
coal was reduced to 79 tons, seven days allowance, but I proceeded to
Chub Cut that night, and the next morning saw her at anchor near St.
George.
	Sunday evening the Sonorna having joined me off the light I kept
away in company with her for the Providence Channel, leaving all the
vessels there except the Onachita and Gladiator. We had strong squalls
from southeast and northwest, with very heavy sea, ship rolling very
deep, and shaft having considerable lateral motion, bringing up heavily
on the main journals. On the 17th, off the Hole in the Wall, spoke the
U. S. S. Connecticut; same day communicated with the U. S. S. Octo-
rara, and at night anchored with her under Stirrup Cays. There
being no coal there, and having but 17 tons on board, it was deemed
advisable to run for havana, but having received information that a
steamer might run out from Nassau that night, I went to the mouth of
the Northwest Channel from Nassau and remained there until the next
night, when, with the Sonoma, I left for this place.
	I have now on board about 3 tons of coal. When I left Bermuda the
vessel chartered to take coal from St. George to Stirrup Cays had not
left Hamilton, and probably did not for several days after. I shall
require about 170 tons of coal.
	The frame of the engine from lateral motion of the shaft in a seaway
works considerably, and it will be necessary to have some bolts from
the ships side to strengthen it. The Sonomas is so strengthened, and
while lying off Bermuda one of the bolts broke, showing the strain
upon them. This ship having none, the increasing lateral motion of
the shaft has given me considerable uneasiness.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
G.	W. RODGERS,
Commandem
Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron

Page 517

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
517

Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Captaim Glisson, U. S. Navy, corn-
manding U. S. S. Mohi can, to cruise in search of C. S. S. Alabama
(290).
NAVY DEPARTMENT, October 22, 1862.
	~I1~: Proceed immediately with the U. S. steam sloop ]liliohican in
search of the rebel steamer 290, or Alabama. This piratical vessel when
last heard from was in latitude 400 N., longitude 50~ 30 W., where,
on the 3d instant, she destroyed the ship Brilliant. The master of the
Brilliant says that it was ~)retty generally understood Porto Praya,
Cape Verde Islands, would be one of the places of rendezvous for the
290.	You will proceed to these islands, taking the track of our mer-
chantmeii bound to the equator. If you find the 290 has not visited
Porto Praya it will be advisable for you to remain there until you learn
something definite of her movements. Every enquiry should be made
cautiously, to ascertain if arrangements have been made for coaling
the 290 at Porto Praya or in that vicinity. Your movements must
depend very much on your own judgment and upon information of the
movements of the 290.
	It is probable the Tuscarora, Kearsarge, and St. Louis will cruise in
the vicinity of the Azores, the Canaries, and the neighboring waters,
and the squadron of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes will doubtless give
attention to the West Indies and the northeastern coast of South
America. Therefore it is desired that the Mohi can should cruise near
the Cape Verde and on towards the Cape of Good hope. But of course
you are not restricted to these prescribed limits on the course marked
out, should you receive reliable information that would render it im-
portant to depart from them. Much must be left to your discretion.
	Enclosed herewith is a photograph of the 290. Communicate with
the Department when a safe opportunity occurs.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,

Captain 0. 5. GLISSON, U. S. Navy,	Secretary of the Navy.
Commanding U. S. steam sloop ]hfohican, Philadelphia.
	P. S.Communicate with our consuls at the ports you may visit, and
on learning of the destruction of the 290, return with the ]ilohican to
Philadelphia.



Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Lee, U. S. Navy, commanding North
Atlantic Blockading Squadron, to Lvommander Rouckendorif, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. S. San Jacinto, to proceed to Nova Scotia in
search of C. S. S. Alabama (290).

U.	S. FLAG STEAMER PHILADELPHIA,
Hampton Roads, October 22, 1862.
	SIR: Immediately on filling up with coal and obtaining other nec-
essary supplies, you will proceed with the U. S. S. San Jacinto under
your command to the vicinity of Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, in search
of the rebel steamer 290, or Alabama, which has recently destroyed
a Ilumber of American vessels in the neighborhood of the Western
Islands. Enclosed herewith is a photograph of this steamer.
	The Department, under date of October 18, writes to me as follows:
	The latest information we have from the ~9O is of the destruction of the Emily Thin-
ham and the Brilliant, on the 3d instant, ia latitude 400, longitude 500 30

Page 518

518	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	Captain Geo. Hagar, late master of the Brilliant, states that it is understood that an
English vessel is to meet the ~9O off Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, in all of this month,
with letters, papers, etc., from the rebel Government; also to obtain from this same
vessel two more large rifled guns, and to coal from her either in one of the unin-
habited harbors on the N. E. coast or at Picton, Nova Scotia.

	After cruising in search of the 290 until your coal is exhausted, you
can replenish your supply at some poiut in that locality, from which
you will telegraph to the Department and enable it to give you any
additional orders it may wish to.
	Enclosed herewith, for your information concerning this and other
vessels engaged iu various ways in giving aid and comfort to the euemy,
is a series of extracts from the foreign correspondence of Government
received through the Department by the commanding officer of this
squadron. Your especial attention is invited to these extracts.
	Respectfully, yours,	~. ~. LEE,
	Acting Rear-Admiral,
	Commanding North Atlantic Blockading Squadron.
	Commander Wivii. IRONCKENDORFF,
Commanding U. S. S. San Jacinto, Hampton Roads, Virginia.


Order from the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral Lee, U. S.
Navy, commanding North Atlantic Blockading Squadron, regarding
the cruise of the U. S. S. San Jacinto in searching for the C. S. S.
Alabama (290). 1~vY DEPARTMENT, October 24, 18G2.

	SIR: Instead of sending the San Jacinto on the cruise indicated in
the instructions to you of the 19th instant, you will direct her to pro.
ceed to Bermuda and thence through the Windward Islands as far
south as Trinidad, iu search of the Alabama, or 290. She will return to
Hampton Roads after completing this duty, looking in at such places
on the route as may be advisable. Should she hear of the Alabama in
that quarter or within reach, she will not fail to follow her. Martinique
is mentioned as one of the places where the Alabama will be most
likely to touch.
	The San Jacinto can coal at St. Thomas and at such other convenient
ports as may be necessary. The Department has shipped some cargoes
of coal to Turtle Harbor, just north of Carysfort light.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Rear-Admiral S. P. LEE,
Commanding North Atlantic Blockading Squadron,
Old Point Comfort, Va.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Captain ikileKinstry, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Dacotah, to cruise in search of C. S. S. Alabama
(290). NAVY DEPARTMENT, October 24, 18G2.

	SIR: Proceed to the coasts of Nova Scotia and Newfoundland in
search of the rebel steamer Alabama, or 290, and to recruit the health
of your ships crew. You will touch at Halifax and communicate with
our consul at that port. You will also visit Cape Breton Island

Page 519

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	519

	The Alabama when last heard from was iii latitude 400 N., longitude
50~ 30 W., where she destroyed, on the 30th instant, the American
merchant ship Brilliant. The late master of the Brilliant states that
it was pretty generally understood that the Alabama would meet au
English vessel some time in this month off Cape Breton to receive dis-
patches and also two more large rifled guns, and probably coal from
her.
	You will cruise iu the vicinity above mentioned until receiving fur-
ther orders from the Department, which will be sent to you at Halifax,
and from which point you will communicate with the Department, by
letter or by telegraph, if important to do so.
	Enclosed herewith is a photograph of the Alabama.
I am, respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Captain J. P. MOKINSTRY,
Commanding U. S. S. Dacotah, New York.



Report of Commander Graven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tus-
carora, of cruise in the Azores searching for C. S. S. Alabama (290).

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP TUSCARORA,
Lisbon, October 2G, 18G2.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that I arrived at this place yester-
(lay, from a cruise among the Azores, in search of the pirate steamer
Alabama, late 290, alias Barcelona. The pirate has not been heard of
since September 19, and the whaling vessels have resumed their cruis-
ing. I came to this place as the nearest point for obtaining inforina-
tion, and shall leave again in a few days, having first to calk the decks,
which work I was not able to accomplish at Cadiz.
	My theory with regard to the pirate is that he will next be heard of
in the vicinity of the equator, on the track of our homeward-bound
South American and China trade. He has been cruising under sail
with fires banked, and must have had, when last heard of, coal enough
for about twenty days steaming.
	If nothing is heard of him before I leave here, it is my purpose to
proceed to the Canaries, via Fayal, hoping to hear of or fall in with the
pirate.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T.	AUGS. CRAVEN,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Commander if. C. IVfarin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship
St. Louis, of cruise in the Azores for the protection of commerce.

U. S. SHIP ST. LOUIS,
Iiayai, Azores, October 26, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that since my last letter to the
Department of the 28th instant [ultimo], I have been cruising in the
vicinity of these islands for the protection of our commerce against th

Page 520

520	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

rebel steamers. In the cour~e of the cruise I have been twice in sight
of suspicious steamers, one of which was at the time being chased by
the U. S. S. Kearsarge, and passed so near that had this ship been a
steamer I could have engaged her without difficulty. The other was
discovered at night, and almost within gunshot, close to the island of
Terceira, at which the rebel steamers took in their coal and munitions,
but I could not follow her, and I there also felt the insufficiency of a
sailing ship for pnrposes of cruising after steam vessels.
	Since the above occurrences I have not heard of any further depreda-
tions or any suspicious vessels, and beyond a doubt the vessels have
left for other parts. I shall sail tomorrow morning on a further cruise.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
M. C. MARIN,
Commander, U. S. Ship St. Louis.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Letter from the U. S. consul at Gibraltar to the Secretary of the Navy,
reporting the movements of United States vessels in that vicinity.

CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Gibraltar, October 26, 1862.
	SIR:	I beg to inform you that the U. S. S. Kearsarge returned to her
anchorage this morning off Algeciras, last from Fayal and Madeira.
She left at the former island the U. S. S. Tuscarora. The sailing cor-
vette St. Louis was also iu that neighborhood. The Kearsarge did not
succeed in falling in with Semmes.
	The U. S. storeship [barki Release left Algeciras last evening on a
cruise towards Malaga. She will return to Algeciras immediately.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
HORATIO J. SPRMrnE,
U.	S. Consul.
Hon. SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.




Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Lee, U. S. Navy, commanding North
Atlantic Blockading Squadron, to Commander Rouckendorif, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. S. San Jacinto, to proceed to the West Indies
in search of C. S. S. Alabama (290).

U.	S. FLAcf STEAMER PHILADELPHIA,
hampton Roads, October 27, 1862.
	SIR:	Instead of proceeding according to my orders to you of the
22d, by direction of the Department you will proceed to Bermuda, and
thence through the Windward Islands as far south as Trii~ida~,in
search of the Alabama, or 290. You will return to Hampton IRoads,
after completing this duty, looking in at such places on route as may
be advisable. Should you hear of the Alabama in that quarter, or
within reach, you will not fail to follow her. Martinique is mentioned
as one of the places where the Alabama will be most likely to touch

Page 521

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS~UNION.	521

	The San Jctcinto can coal at St. Thomas and at such other convenient
ports as may be necessary. The Departuient has shipped some cargoes
of coal to Turkey [Turtlel Harbor, just north of Carysfort light.
Respectfully, yours,
S. P. LEE,
Acting Rear-Admiral,
	Commanding North Atlantic Blockading Squadron.
Commander W~i. RONCKENDORFF, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. San Jacinto, Hampton Roads, Virginia.



Report of Captain Pickering, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kear-
sarge, of cruise in search of suspicious vessels, from October 5 to 27,
1862.
U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSAR~E,
Algeciras Bay, October 27, 1862.
	Sin: I have the honor to report the arrival of the Kearsarge at this
port at 3 oclock on the morning of the 25th instant.
	On the 5th instant I had the honor to report to the Department my
arrival at Fayal, and the object of my cruise. The next day at mid-
night I left Fayal, bound on a cruise among the islands, and to the
whalers cruising grpunds, known technically in this region as the
two 40s. On the 8th, at daylight in the morning, discovered and
gave chase to a large, double smoke pipe, paddle-wheel steamer, and
continued the chase all day, steering E. ~ 5., yards down, ship triimned
by the stern with bower chains and solid shot, and making per log 11
knots. At sunset the position of the chase was not perceptibly altered,
and as the night closed in dark and stormy I lost all trace, but still
kept up the chase, steering more to the north ward, sending up yards,
and making sail. At daylight, no steamer being in sight and engines
needing repairs, gave up the chase.
	At 4 p. m. of the 12th, anchored at Fayal, and finding from the report
of the chief engineer that the engines were in such condition as to ren-
der it unsafe to make over forty-five revolutions without five days,
repairs, which it would have been imprudent to have attempted at this
season of the year in that port, I determined to return.
	On the 15th, leaving orders with Commander Craven, of the Tus-
carora, then in port, a copy of which, marked A,* is herewith enclosed,
I put to sea, cruised through the islands, communicated with the vice-
consul at San Miguel [St. Michael] by boat, steamed around St. Mary
[Santa Maria], touched at Madeira on the 20th, coaled and sailed on
the 21st.
	On my arrival at this port I find the Sumter still at anchor, but as
her captain has been shot (dead) by his second officer, upon the alleged
ground that he (the captain) was about to run the Sumter out, for the
purpose of delivering her to Federal cruisers, and the second officer
having been arrested by the English authorities, there is no danger of
her leaving her present anchorage for some time.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. W. PJOKERING~
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
See p. 507

Page 522

522	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Captain Pickering, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge,
of intention to proceed to Cadiz for repairs.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Algeciras Bay, October 27, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to enclose a copy* of a survey held on the 7th
instant upon the machinery of this ship at Fayal, together with the
several reports * of the chief engineer since that time, by which the
Department will see that the Kearsarge is not iii a condition for active
service here, or in a safe condition for a passage across the Atlantic.
	To wait for instructions from the Department under existing circum-
stances would be a loss of time and eventually of important opportu-
nity; I shall therefore proceed to Cadiz, dock, examine, and make such
repairs as may be found to be absolutely necessary.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERING-,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commodore Ringgold, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. frigate Sabine, to cruise in search of C. S. S. Ala-
bama (2~90).
NAVY DEPARTMENT, October 28, 1862.
	SIR:	Proceed with the U. S. frigate Sabine, under your command, on
a cruise in search of piratical vessels, particularly the Alabama, or 290,
and for the protection of our commerce. Yonr cruise will be by the
Azores and Cape Verde, touching at those islands; thence to the coast
of Brazil and back to New York, capturing any vessels you may find
engaged in depredating on our commerce or in conveying supplies to
the rebels. -
	Enclosed herewith is a copy t of the instructions of the Department of
the 18th of Angust last, relative to the duties of our cruisers in search-
ing and seizing vessels carrying contraband of war to the insurgents.
I also enclose a photograph of the Alabama.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the j\Tavy
Commodore CADWALAPER iRING-GOLD,
Commanding U. S. Frigate Sabine, New London, Conn.


Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Commander Rodgers, U. S. Navy, commanding U.
S. S. Jioga, to cruise i vicinity of West Indies for interception of sus-
picious vessels.
FLAG- STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Turtle harbor, October 28, 1862.
	SIR:	You will proceed to the Great Bahama Bank, making Gun Cay
light, thence to the Orange Cay, where you will cruise in that vicinity
and on the bauk, to intercept any vessels that may be passing over in
	Omitted.	t See p. 417

Page 523

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	523

that direction; there you will remain until relieved by the Octorara,
Then you will proceed to Sagna la Grande, on the Cuban coast, touch-
ing in at Auguila Island on your way, which lies on the eastern extrem-
ity of the Cay Sal Bank. This is a noted resort for slavers, off Sagua
Ia Grande and between it and the Great Paredon light-house to the
eastward. The Wachusett will join you there. There is anchorage off
the entrance of Sagna la Grande, in five to seven fathoms of water.
Take on board a pilot, and wait until joined by the Wachusett.
I am, very respectfully, your obdient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
jActing] Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander G. W. RODO-ERS,
Commanding Steamer Tioga, West India Squadron.



Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Nick-
els, U. S. Nary, commanding U. S. ship Onward, to cruise in search of
C. S. S. Alabama (290).

NAVY DEPARTMENT, October 29, 1862.
	SIR:	Proceed to sea with the U. S. ship Onward and cruise in the
track of our vessels bound to and from England, in search of the pirat-
ical steamer 290, and for the protection of our commerce on that route.
You will run to the eastward as far as longitude 150 W. from Green.
wich and touch at the Azores occasionally. After exhausting your
provisions, return to Boston for a fresh supply.
	Enclosed herewith is a photograph of the 290, or Alabama, also a
copy of the circular instructions of the Department, dated August 18,
1862, to our cruisers, in reference to search and seizure.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant J. F. NICKELS, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. Ship Onward, Boston.




Report of Commander Bryson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Chip-
pewa, of arrival at Algeciras, Spain, and giving information regard-
ing C. S. S. Sumter.

U.	S. GUNBOAT CiTIPPEWA,
Bay of Aigeciras, Spain, October 30, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that I arrived here this day after a
passage direct of twenty-eight days from Hampton Roads, Va. On
my arrival I found the Kearsarge, Captain Pickering, to whom I
reported, showing him at the same time the orders under which I was
acting. As soon as possible I communicated with the American consul
at Gibraltar from whom I learned that the Sumter had but little coal
on board; that her machinery might be in such order as to enable her
to reach England; her boilers are defective~ she has no sails bent.
She is now in charge of her sergeant of marines; has 1 assistant engi-
gineer, 1 boatswain, 1 steward, 5 men (about). Nothing in the way o

Page 524

524	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

coal can be received on board of her without permh;sion from the
authorities at Gibraltar.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
A.	BRYSoN,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commodore Rinygold, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship
Sabine, of intended departure for sea from New London, Conn.

U. S. SHIP SABINE,
New London, October 31, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of yonr letter of
instrnctions, of the 28th instant, by the mail jnst in, and beg leave to
say that, wind permitting, I shall put to sea on Sunday next, and will
proceed with all diligence to execnte the duty confided to me.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CADWALADER RING-GOLD,
Commodore.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.
Secretary of the Navy.


Letter from the U. S. consul at Gibraltar to the Secretary of the Navy,
reporting arrival of a Confederate officer to take charge of C. S. S.
Sumter.

CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Gibraltar, November 1, 1862.
	SIR:	I beg to inform you that an officer arrived this evening by the
British mail packet Delta from Southampton, for the purpose of taking
charge of the steamer Sumter, which continues anchored at this port.
From what I can learn, this officer was attached to the Sumter when
she first made her appearance at this port. I have communicated this
information to the commanders of the Kearsarge and Chippewa, who
continue off Algeciras.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
HORATIO J. SPRAG-UE,
U.	S. Consut.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington City, D. C.



Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Captain Pickering, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Jfearsarge, to remain on the European coast for
the protection of commerce.

NAvy DEPARTMENT, November 1, 1862.
	SIR:	Your communication of the 6th ultimo, dated at Fayal, has been
received.
For the present you will remain on the European coast in the bes

Page 525

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	525

position for watching the enemy and protecting our commerce, visiting
as often as advisable the Azores and Madeira.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Captain C. W. PICKERING,
Commanding U. S. Steam Sloop Kearsarge, Cadiz, Spain.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Master Williams, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. ship mo, to cruise near the island of St.
Helena to warn merchant vessels against the C. S. S. Alabama (290).

NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 1, 1862.
	SIR: As soon as the U. S. ship mo, nuder your command, is ready
for sea proceed with her to the island of St. Helena for the protection
of our commerce passing in that direction. If on arriving at St. Hel-
ena you are not allowed to remain in port, you will leave at once and
cruise in the vicinity as long as your supplies will permit and then
return to New York.
	You will communicate with our merchant vessels and whalers that
you meet with, and put them on their guard against the piratical
steamer 290, or Alabama. If you should receive reliable information of
this steamer having gone toward either of the capes, you will follow
her. Transmitted herewith is a photograph of the 290. 1 also trans-
mit a copy of the circular instructions of the Department issued August
-	18, 1862, to our cruisers, on the subject of search and seizure.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Master JAMES M. WILLIAMS,
Commanding U. S. ship mo, New York.


Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes,
U. S. Navy, commanding West India Sqaadron, giving names and
cruising grounds of United States vessels searching for the C. S. S.
Alabama (290).
NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 1, 1862.

	SIR: Your dispatches numbered from 1 to 8 have been received. A
copy of your No. 4, in reference to the action of the commander of II.
B. M. gunboat Bull Dog, in transporting several officers of the rebel
service from Nassau to Bermuda, has been communicated to the Secre-
tary of State.
	The Dacotah having returned to New York with the yellow fever on
board, the Department has sent her to the coasts of Newfoundland and
Nova Scotia for the health of her crew and in search of the Alabama,
or 290. We have heard nothing of the movements of this steamer
since the Department last wrote to you concerning her. It is impor-
tant that you should know what vessels of the Navy are in search of
the 290, so that you can direct the movements of your squadron more
effectually.
	The Jtliohican has gone to time Cape Yerd~, and will cruise in that
vicinity and on toward the Cape of Good Hope; the San Jacinto t

Page 526

526	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Bermuda, thence through the Windward Islands to as far south as
Trinidad; the Augusta,* via Bermuda and St. Thomas, through the
Windward Islands, and along the coast of South America to Pernam-
buco; the Onward will cruise iu the track of vessels between England
and the United States; the Sabine will go to the Azores, Cape
Verde, over to the coast of Brazil, and back to New York; the mo to
St. Helena. The Kearsarge, Tuscarora, and St. Louis are cruising some-
where about the Azores. Under this arrangement it will be well to
keep your squadron within the West Indies. The Vanderbilt is not
quite ready yet, and the Department is undecided whether it will send
her to the West Indies or directly after the 290, on learning again
where she is.
Jam, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron, Havana.


Order from Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Commander Ridgely, U. S. Navy, commanding U.
S. S. Santiago de ~Juba, to proceed to Key West, Eta., for provisions.

FLAG STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Havana, November 1, 1862.
SIR:	You will proceed to Key West for the following objects, viz:
To obtaiu a supply of provisions for the squadron, as named in the
enclosed requisition, take in as much coal as possible, and three months
supply of provisions for your vessel. After having obtained the sup-
plies at Key West, you will touch off this port for dispatches, letters,
and papers for the squadron that may have arrived. You will then
proceed up the old Bahama Channel to off Sagna la Grande, where you
will find the Wachussett or Tioga, with orders for your further guid-
ance. The duties of the squadron require that you should obtain all
supplies at Key West as soon as possible.
	It may be well for you to run down by the route of Bahia Honda,
both going and returning here, as it will delay you but a short time,
and it is possible you may intercept some vessels that have run the
blockade. Wishing you a pleasant and expeditious trip,
I am, very respectfully, yours, etc.,
CHARLES WILKES
Acting Rear-Admiral, Co~n~nanding West India Squa~lron.
	Commander ID. B. RIDGELY,
Commanding Steamer Santiago de Cuba,
West India Squadron.


[Telegram.]

BOSTON, November 2, 1862.
(Received Washington, 6 p. in.)
	Brig Baron de Gastine arrived at this port. Was captured while on
passage from Bangor to Cardenas by rebel (steamer) 290, and released
on bond. Reports the following vessels as captnred and burned by 290:

The Augusta did not go on this cruise

Page 527

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	527

Ship Tonawanda, of Philadelphia, released on bond of $80,000; bark
Lauractia, of Boston, burned; ship Manchester, burned; ship Lafayette,
burned; bark Lampligliter, burned; brig Dunkirk, burned; schooner
Crenshaw, burned.
		J. T. SMITH.
SECRETARY NAVY.



Letter from eommandant navy yard, New York, to Secretary of the Navy,
transmitting statement made by one of the crew of the C. S. S. Ala-
bama (290).
NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, November 3, 1862.
	SIR: I enclose herewith a statement of Henry Redden, who alleges
that he was one of the crew of the 290. He says he left her in the
steamer Bahama after that vessel had discharged her cargo into her
at the Western Islands.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, ~ IPAULDING,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commandant.
	Secretary of the Navy, Washington.

[Enclosure.]

NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, November 3, 1862.
	SIR: I beg leave to state that I am an Englishman and shipped as
boatswain on board the Confederate steamer 290 for about four months.
We went on a crnise from Liverpool to the Western Islands. We
remained there three weeks. There was a bark commanded by Cap-
tain Quinn [McQueen] came from London with 6 guns, 300 barrels of
powder, and shot and clothing, also coal. A steamer, the Bahama, from
Liverpool, came with 2 guns for the 290 and 2 safes with money. The
Portuguese ordered us out of port while [we] were discharging the
Bahama. We told them we were disabled and that we were a Spanish
man-ofwar bound from London to Havana in distress. We went to
sea that day and came back same night and finished receiving goods.
This was about two mouths since. There were on board four Savannah
pilots, viz, William King, James King, Barnstein, and Hardy. Captain
Bulloch, of the C. S. Navy, came from Liverpool in the Bahama to see
her all right. He did not go in the 290.
	Her speed, I am confident, is not over U knots; she is not ironclad,
but wooden and screw; nor is she a good sea boat, as she rolls
heavily. She carries eight gunstwo pivot rifled 98-pounders, and six
62-pounders smooth bore (three on broadside). When the cargo was
all on board, Captain Semmes mustered all hands aft and said that he
was going to take from an eagle to an anchor from the enemy. He said
his heart was broken to see his country going to ruin, and that he was
going to do all he could against the enemy. She had 92 men when I
left, and they were not over-anxious to remain in her.
	I would also state that at Birkenhead, England, Messrs. Lawrence
are building two iron rams for the rebels, purporting to be building for
some other nation. Length of each, 238 feet.
Very respectfully, your obedient seivant,
hENRY REDDEN,
	On Board the Edinburgh Steamer, Pier No. 44, North River.

	Rear-Admiral H. PAULDING,
	Commandant Navy Yard, New York

Page 528

528	GYBRATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from Commander Ronchendorif, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
San Jacinto, to the Secretary qf the Navy, transmitting copy of instruc-
tions for pilots at Bermuda, West Indies.

	U.	S. STEAM SLOOP SAN JACINTO,
Grassy Bay, Island of Bermuda, November 3, 1862.
	SIR: I herewith enclose you a copy of regulations handed me by the
pilot on nay arrival off this island November 1.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. RONCKENDORFF,
Commander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosure.]


INSTRUCTIONS FOR GUIDANCE OF PILOTS.


OCTOBER 10, 1862.
	His Excellency the governor having acquainted us that in order to
enable him to insure attention to those rules which her Majesty has
directed to be observed in the treatment of vessels of war of the United
States and Confederates States of America which may enter these
waters, the place which these vessels are at liberty to enter or anchor
in, until a reference shall have beeu made to his Excellency respecting
their movements or stay, is to be defined.
	We have therefore to convey to [youl his Excellencys orders that
you are to pilot every vessel of war or privateer belonging to the United
States or Confederate States of America which may arrive off these
islands, and be desirous of entering into port, direct to Grassy Bay,
unless prevented by stress of weather, and there anchor until her coin-
mand~r shall have communicated with his Excellency. If the coin-
mander of the vessel shall, however, prefer to remain outside until he
shall have communicated with his Excellency, you will be at liberty to
anchor his vessel in Five-Fathom Hole.
FREDERICK H. GLASSE,
JOHN T. FISHER,
HENRY G. HUNT,
Commissioners of Pilots.
Mr. THOMAS CANN, Pilot.






[Telegram.]


BOSTON, November 3, 1862.
(Received Washington, 12:30 p. in.)
	The 290 was last seen October 29, latitnde 39o~ longitude 690, and
steering N. W., with wind south.
JNO. T. SMITH.
Hon. G. WELLES

Page 529

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	529

[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 3, 1862.
	Dacotah may change her orders so that she will return in ten or
fifteen days if she hears nothing of 290. If she gets upon her track,
how ever, slie will follow her up.
	GIDEON WELLES,
	[Rear-]Admiral H. PAULDING,	Secretary of Navy.
Commanding Navy Yard, New York.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 3, 1862.
	Our advices are that on 29th October the 290 was in latitude 390~
longitude 69~, steering N.W., with wind south. The Dacotah, Mohi can,
mo and any other vessels leaving the yard can vary from previous
orders to go upon her track. Hurry all to sea.
	GIDEON WELLES,
	[Rear-]Admiral H. PAULDING,	Secretary Navy.
Commandant Navy Yard. New York.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 3, 1862.
	The 290 was seen October 29, in latitude 390~ longitude 69~, steering
N.W., with wind south. Hurry the Augusta to sea with directions to
vary from previous orders to get upon her track, if possible.
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commodore G. ~-. PENDERGRAST,	Secretary of the Navy.
Commanding Navy Yard, Philadelphia.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 3, 1862.
	On the 29th October the 290 was seen in latitude 390~ longitude 690,
steering N.W., with wind south. Advise your vessels.
	GiDEoN WELLES,
	Acting Rear-Admiral S. ~. LEE,	Secretary Navy.
Hampton Roads.


Letter from Lieutenant- Commander Paulding, U. S. Navy, to the Com-
mandant navy yard, New York, suggesting measures for the capture of
C. S. S. Alabama (290).
NAvY YARD, NEW YORK, November 4, 1862.
	Sin:	Having heard that a rebel vessel called the Alabama is cruising
on the ocean and destroying our commerce, I respectfully draw your
attention to the following suggestions: Believing that she can easily be
	123A	3

Page 530

530	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

taken by mounting a rifle truck cannofl f~orward and another aft on any
of the fast steamers ~iiow lying at the docks in New York, fortifying her
engines with pressed bates of hay, all of which can be done in a day,
placing 200 well armed men and officers on for a crew, I propose to
capture her by boarding or running her down, and if the Department
will permit a vessel such as the steamship Eagle, which has a rifled gun
already mounted, to b~ hired for a limited space of time, I am anxious
to offer my services for the purpose of pursuing the pirate Alabama.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
LEONARD PAULDJNQ
Lieutenant- Commander.
	Rear-Admiral II. PAULDINQ
Commanding Navy Yard, New York.



Letter from Commander Nicholson, U. S. Navy, to the commandant navy
yard, New York, suggesting measures for the capture of the C. S. S.
Alabama (290).

U.	S. NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, November 4, 1862.
	SIR: In view of the close proximity of the pirate 290 to our coast, I
would suggest that one of our ocean steamers be chartered, her ma-
chinery protected by bales of hay, two rifled guns on truck carriages
put on board, and a crew of 200 men. As this 290 is a propeller, a side-
wheel steamer can easily overtake hcr if she is found. I would then
run alongside of her and capture her by boarding, and as she carries
but 90 men,lam confident that the capture can be easily made.
Should these views meet your approbation, am ready to leave on this
duty at a moments notice. The vessel, if chartered, can be got ready
in a few hours.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	W. A. NICHOLSON,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
	Rear-Admiral HIRAM PAULDINO, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Naval Station, New York.



Letter from the U. S. minister at Lisbon, Portugal, to Commander Craven,
U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, advising a cruise for
the protection of merchant vessels.

LE~ATION OF THE UNITED STATES,
Lisbon, November 4, 1862.
	SIR: It is known from various sources of information that the pirat-
ical cruiser Alabama is still pursuing the career of destruction and
depredation upon American commerce which was recently commenced
off the island of Flores.
	By the last accounts it would seem that this cruiser, after leaving the
Azores, took a western course toward Newfoundland, and in that
vicinity burned and destroyed all ships bound on regular voyages
between New York and the ports of Europe. Among them was one
laden with a valuable cargo for this port.
	11 have reason to believe that a large number of vessels freighte

Page 531

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
531
with cereals have already left or soon will leave New York for Lisbon.
It is of great consequence that they and others in a similar category
should be protected. Your ship is the only one now available for the
purpose on this side of the Atlantic, the Kearsarge being only tem-
porarily disabled.
	My decided opinion is, and my advice conforms to it that the Tusca-
i ora should proceed forthwith to those waters and places, where the
most efficient succor and protection can be afforded to merchant vessels
destined for Europe or vice versa f
the United States.	, rom and to the northern ports of
I would therefore strongly recommend a cruise between Azores and
the west Atlantic coast, along the general track of commerce, until
proper relief is furnished by the Navy Department, which may soon
be confidently expected, if it has not already been provided. After-
wards, I would advise you to return to these waters, since it may be
supposed that some of the depredation will be changed, and we should
be prepared for all such contingencies.
I am, sir, very respectfully,
	Commander CRAVEN,	JA1~E5 E. HARVEY.
U.	S. S. Tuscarora, Lisbon.



Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Mohican, of
arrival at Bermuda, West Indies, with imiaired machinery.

U. S. S. MorncAN,
Bermuda, November 5, 1862.
	SIR: I have to report to the honorable Secretary of the Navy that
I arrived at this port on the 1st of November with the machinery of
this vessel so much out of order that it was unsafe to remain at sea
any longer. We have experienced very heavy weather on our voyage
to this place, losing our port quarter boat and badly damaging the
starboard launch and carrying away the entire head. At one time
the water in the hold was nearly up to the furnaces, and at the time
the journals and crank pins were so much heated that we could not
work the engines, which has been the case frequently since we left port.
All the hand pumps were at work and the crew employed bailing, which
kept the water down until we could work the engines and bilge pumps.
Had the engineers department been more experienced much of our
trouble would have been obviated. It is very important that some of
the engineers that had been in the ship previously should always be
retained on board and then all would not be green. As is the case
on board of the Mohican not one of the engineers on board ever passed
an examination. I found the U. S. S. San Jacinto at this port and
immediately ordered a survey on the engines and boilers of this ship,
and herewith enclose you the report * of the surveying officers. I shall
have everything in order in a few days and proceed to obey my instruc-
tions.
	I would also state that the lOO-pounder rifled gun put on board of
the vessel at Philadelphia has brought her so much by the head that
it has destroyed all her good sea aitd sailing qualities. She labors so
heavily in a gale of wind that I consider her quite unsafe; during the

~ mitted

Page 532

532	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

gale that I was in, with sail and steam II could only get 4 miles per
hour, which she should halve done under sail alone, as the wind was
air.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant.
0.	S. GLIS~ON,

Captain, U. S. N.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the U. S. Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, relative to the quality of supplies received from Key
West, Eta.
FLAO- STEAMER WAAJIIUSETT,
havana, November 5, 1862.
	SIR:	I acknowledge the receipt of your dispatches by the Pacific
English mail steamer, by way of Nassau, which reached here last
evening.
	The Santiago de Cuba leaves for Key West to-day. I have provi-
sioned this vessel from her stores and send her to Key West to obtain
a supply for the other vessels of the squadron. The stores received
from the Santiago de Cuba, according to the enclosed report, will most
of them be condemned on survey; they are said to be very much dam-
aged, but we can not do better. Commander D. B. Ridgely reports to
me that the provisions at Key West are all in a very bad state, the
beef being old, and the bread, having remained a long time in this cli-
mate, has become unfit for serving. I need not say to you how iinpor-
taut it is for the health of the crews that our provisions should be free
from decay; indeed, there is scarcely anything which will so soon pro-
duce sickness as bad food, and must have a great effect upon the
cruising of the squadron. I have resorted to Key West for our sup-
plies, as I understand there is a great quantity there in store, but I
have ordered a careful survey to be made before they are received for
the use of the squadron. I shall order Commander IRidgely to give
particular attention to what is received and report to me whether the
stores are of such a character as to preclude my taking them in for a
future supply. I should not have received them from the Santiago de
Cuba if they could have been procured elsewhere.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Actingl Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squctdron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of the commandant navy yard, New York, of the departure of
U.	S. S. Dacotah to search for C. S. S. Alabama.

NAVY YARD, NEW YORK,
November 6, 1862.
	SIR:	I have to report that the U. S. S. Dacotah left here yesterday
afternoon. Captain MeKinstry was furnished with a copy of th

Page 533

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	533

Departments dispatch in relation to the last advices of the 290, or
Alabama, as also with that in relation to the pursuit of her.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	II. PAULIDINO-,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commandant.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Lieutenant Baldwin, U
Navy, commanding U. S. S. Vanderbilt, to cruise in search of C. S. S.
Alabama (290).
NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 6, 1862.
	SIR: Proceed to sea with the U. S. S. Vanderbilt, under your com-
mand, in search of the piratical steamer 290, or Alabama, and for the
protection of our commerce. Your mnin object will be the pursuit of
that vessel, and, if found, to capture or destroy her.
	You will cruise in the track of vessels within the Gulf Stream bound
to and from Europe, as far east as the Grand Banks and to the Capes
of the Delaware on the south. You should visit Bermuda as early as
possible for the purpose of enquiring after the 290. Every twenty
days you will return to port, either New York or Boston, to ascertaiu
if any reliable information of the movements of the 290 have been
received.
	Of course you will not regard yourself as restricted to the limits indi-
cated in these instructions. Circumstances may render it necessary or
important for you to deviate from them, and if reliable intelligence of
the movements of the 290 reaches you, no matter in what quarter, you
will not hesitate to go after her. It is reported that she was last seen
October 29,in latitude 390 N., longitude 69~ W., steering N. W., with
wind south.
	You are to exercise all the rights pertaining to a cruiser of the U. S.
Navy in time of war, and whilst giving your special attention to the
important duty particularly confided to you, you will exercise the
unquestioned belligerent right of search, and will be vigilant to detect,
seize, and sen ci into port for adjudication any vessel employed in con-
veying contraband of war to the insurgents or violating the blockade.
Transmitted herewith is a copy of the circular letter issued by the
Department on the 18th of August last, recapitulating the iustructions
from time to time given and the restrictions and precautions to be
observed by our cruisers with regard to the searching and seizing of
vessels.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Lieutenant CHAS. II. BALDWIN, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Vanderbilt, New York.


$eizure of Confederate schooner Elias Reed by U. S. S. Octorara, November
5, 1862.
Report of Commander Collins, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Octorara.

U.	S. S. OCTORARA,
Little Bahama Bank, November 6, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that we seized the Confederate
schooner Elias Reed, William Blakeney, niaster, yesterday at 6 ocloc

Page 534

534	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

p.	in., in 4~ fathoms water, iii latitude about 26~ 59 30 north, longi-
tude about 770 49 W., the center of Umbrella Cay bearing N. E. by
N., and the south end of Aliens Cay E. by N. true, distant about 4:
miles. Her cargo consists of 8 bales of sea-island cotton, about 76
barrels of turpentine, and 365 barrels of resin. No papers were found
on board. Her cargo and a Confederate flag are the only indications
of her character. She is believed to have been front St. Marys, Ga.,
and bound to Nassau.
	Her crew consists of James Collins, of St. John, New Brunswick;
Edward Reiley, of Nassau; Richard Welsh, of ireland; Robert Gikie,
of Scotland, and John Williams, of Scotland. F. W. Williams, of New
Orleans, and Albert de iRoediger, of Paris, are represented as passen-
gers. The former I suspect is the owner of the cargo, and from a pri-
vate paper, which I will enclose, he is probably an agent for purchasing
a steamer to run the blockade. William Blakeney is the owner of one-
third of the vessel and cargo and represents the remaining two thirds.
	I send her to Key West in charge of Acting Ensign J. II. Wiley.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	N. COLLINS,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander.
&#38; eretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
[EnclosureExtract.]

AuGusTA, October 16, 1862.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

	I expect, however, to make most out of the blockade, and hope soon
to hear you are safely out and have brought [bought] a steamer of
suitable size and draft and one or two more sailing vessels, and loaded
the latter, with the Etias Reed, with salt to return.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

	(Address[ed] to Dear Frank~ and signed AleckY)


Order of-the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Collins, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S

Octorara, to forward to the Department further information.

NAvY DEPARTMENT, February 14, 1863.
	SIn: It has been alleged that the schooner Elias Reed was, at the
time of her seizure, within the territorial jurisdiction of Great Britain,
and a correspondence on the subject has passed between this Depart-
inent and the Secretary of State and Lord Lyons on the subject.
	An affidavit of two seamen who were serving on board the Elias
Reed has been presented to Mr. Seward by Lord Lyons, and a copy of
it is herewith enclosed. In your report of the seizure of the schooner,
you give the locality of her seizure as about 4 miles from the adjacent
keys. The Department desires a supplemental report on the subject,
and if the affidavit is not correct, any evidence that you may be able to
bring forward to disprove the statements of the parties.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commander N. COLLINS,	Secretary of the Navy.
Commanding U. S. S. Octorara, Havana, Cu ba.
[Enclosure.]

	Know all men by these presents, that on this 23d day of December,
in the year of our Lord 1862. personally came and appeared before me,
Bruce Lockhart Buruside, a notary public by lawful authority a

Page 535

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	535

pointed, duly admitted, and sworn, residing and practicing in the city
of Nassau, in the Island of New Providence, Ed ward iRoyley and John
Williams, seamen of and belonging to the Confederate schooner Elias
Reed, of and belonging to the port of St. Marys, in the State of Florida,
and did solemnly declare that they sailed from the said port of St.
Marys, bound to this port of Nassau, on or about the 30th day of Octo-
ber last, and when ten days out, the weather being very heavy, the
vessel was brought to anchor under the lee of Strangers Cay, Great
Abaco, distant about 2 miles. The vessel laid there that night, and
next morning got underway and beat up between the mainland and
the cays and came to anchor in the harbor between Angel Fish Point
and Hog Cay, surrounded by the cays and the mainland of Abaco, the
land in no case being over a mile and a half distant. That whilst lying
there about 5 p. m. they discovered a steamer approaching, and shortly
after sunset an American armed steamer, called the Octorara, came
within hail and an armed boat boarded them, after which the vessel
was taken charge of by a prize crew and the vessel got underway and
towed by the Octorara some 2 or 3 miles. The crew of the schooner
were then transferred to the Octorara and the schooner towed down
opposite the Jsaacs, where she was put in l)ossessiol~ of a prize officer
and sent to Key West as a prize, and the crew of the s~hooner were
detained on board of the Octorara for twenty-one days and then
taken to Key West.
	And these declarants further declare that at the time of the cap-
ture of the said schooner Elias Reed she was at anchor within a har-
bor of the Bahama Islands, within the dominions of her Majesty the
Queen, and subject in all things to the territorial jurisdiction of her
Majesty.
EDWARD ROYLEY.
his
JOHN x WILLIAMS.
mark.
	Declared to this 23d day of December, A. D. 1862, before me.
		B. L. BUENSIBE,
Notary Public.
To all to whorm these presents shall come:
	I, Bruce Lockhart Buruside, a notary public by lawful authority
appointed, duly admitted, and sworn, residing in the city of Nassau, in
the island of New Providence, do hereby certity that the foregoing is
a true copy of a notarial declaration duly made before me by the
within-named Edward Royley and John Williams, as the same remains
of record in my notarial record book, pages 101 and 102.
	In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused my
seal notarial to be affixed the 26th day of December, in the year of
our Lord 1862.
	[SEAL.]	B. L. BuR~sIDE,
	Notary Public.

1~eport of Commander Collins, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Octorara, transmitting affi-
davits regarding the seiznre of Confederate schooner Elias Reed.

U.	S. S. OCTORARA,
Key West, March 29, 18G3.
	Sin: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the 14th February last, with a letter from the Hon. William H. Seward,
Secretary of State, and affidavits of two seamen in relation to the
seizure within the territorial jnl-is(liction of Great Britain of th

Page 536

536	OPERATIONS 01? THE CRUISERSUNION.

Confederate schooner Elias Reed, requiring from me a supplemental
report on the subject. In answer, I have to inform the I)epartment
that the Elias Reed has been condemned by Judge William Marvin,
and has been sold at this place.
	The enclosed original affidavits are, I trust, a sufficient answer to the
depositions of two seamen at Nassau. The fact of Stephen Roberts
being a skillful seaman, late master of the British schooner Agnes, and
a citizen of Nassau, will no doubt, with Lord Lyons, give additional
weight to his testimony.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
		N.	COLLINS,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,		 Commander.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

riEnclosures.]

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA:

	Now comes Stephen Roberts, and, being duly sworn, deposes and sayS
that he is by occupation a Bahama pilot; that on the 5th day of Novem-
ber, A. ID. 1862, he was engaged as pilot on board the U. S. commissioned
ship of war the Octorara; that on said day the said ship of war Octorara
captured a schooner called the Elias Reed; that the capture was made
on the Bahama Bank about midway between Little Abaco Island on
the south and the range of keys on the north. Deponent believes the
channel in which the Elias Reed was captured to be at least 9~ miles
wide at the place of capture. The captured vessel was just about in
mid-channel, and can not have been less than 4 miles from the nearest
point of land at the time of seizure.
STEPHEN ROBERTS.
	Subscribed and sworn before me this 29th day of November, 1862.
GEORGE ID. ALLEN,
Clerk U. S. District Court.

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA:
	Now comes John A. Johustone, and, being duly sworn, deposes and
says that he is at present, and has been for the past year, an officer of
the Navy of the United States; that on the 5th day of November, A. D.
1862, he was sailing master on board the U. S. comumissioned ship
of war the Octorara; that on the said 5th day of November, A. ID.
1862, the Octorara captured a schooner called tIme Elias Reed, and sent
the same to Key West for adjudication; that deponent was the board-
ing officer from the Octorara to the Elias Reed; that at the time of
boarding and capture the said Elias Reed was at anchor on what is
called the Little Bahama Bank, to the northward of Little Abaco
lsland, about 5 miles to the westward of the island known as Pen-
sacola Key, and about mid-channel between Little Abaco Island on the
south and the range of keys on the north. Deponent believes the cap-
ture to have been made at a point 4 miles or more distant from any
point of land on either side, and is positive the distance could not have
been less than 3~ miles. Further deponent saith not.
JOHN A. JOHNSTONE,
Acting Master, U. S. Navy.
	Subscribed and sworn before me this 29th day of November, 1862.
GEORGE ID. ALLEN,
Clerk U. S. District Court

Page 537

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	537

Report of Commander Bryson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Chip-
pewa, transmitting copies of communications from U. S. diplomatic
officials at Gibraltar and Lisbon, advising his presence at Cadiz,
Spain.
U. S. GUNBOAT CHIPPEWA,
Off Algeciras, Spain, November 7, 1862.
	Sin: I have just received a note from the U. S. consul at Gibraltar,
requesting me very earnestly to proceed at once to Cadiz to communi-
cate with Captain Pickering of the Kearsarge, and enclosing a telegram
from our minister at Lisbon. I enclose a copy of each.
	The storeship Release arrived here yesterday and is now making
her preparations to return to the United States. Under the circum-
stances I have taken the responsibility of directing her commander to
remain here to watch the Sumter until my return.
Trusting that the Department will approve my course,
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
A.	BRYSON,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington.

[Enclosures.]

NOVEMBER 7, 1862.
	SIR: I beg to enclose herewith copy of a telegram which I have just
received from our minister at Lisbou; and in sight of the important
information therein contained, I would beg respectfully to snggest that
you proceed at once with the Chippewa to Cadiz, and communicate with
Captain Pickering of the U. S. S. Kearsarge with regard to your future
movements.
	The Release might remain at Algeciras to watch the Sumter during
your absence. Please telegraph to Captain Pickering, at Cadiz, and
to Mr. Harvey, at Lisbon, what you decide upon. There is no time to
lose.
H.	J. SPRAGUE,
U.	S. Consul.
	Commander ANDREW BRYSON,
Chippewa.



[Telegram.]

LISBON, November 6, 1862.
	Telegraph Captain Pickering immediately, steamer Bahama, with
men and munitions, is going to get Semmnes at Azores. Turkish
steamer Shasgehard has taken dispatches there for Semmes. Let the
Kearsarge return to Azores, if possible, forthwith; if not, let Chippewa
go with this information to meet Tuscarora, which started Fayal yes-
terday.
JAMES E. HARVEY.

	[H. J. SPRAGUE, Esq.,
U.	S. Consul at Gibraltar.

Page 538

538	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Ii~eport of Acting Lieutenant Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Vanderbilt, of preparations for cruising, in obedience to orders from the
Department.
U. S. S. VANDERBILT,
New York, November 7, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of sailing orders,
dated November 6, for this ship, and also appointment for William II.
Golden as an acting first assistant engineer.
	Admiral Paulding has directed, in default of time to send the person
to him, to appoint a second assistant in place of Mr. Williams, too
sick to accept the appointment sent him. 1 shall return the appoint-
ment sent for Williams.
	The Vanderbilt came down from the navy yard last night and anchored
off the battery to take in her powder. This we shall do as soon as the
weather moderates sufficiently. It is now snowing and blowing hard.
	I shall sail at the earliest possible moment, and earnestly hope my
cruise will prove satisfactory to the Department, and am, sir,
	Your obedient servant,	~. II. BALDWIN,
		 Acting Lieutenant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Report of Acting Lieutenant Baldwin, U S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Vanderbilt, of detention by storm from proceeding in search of C. S. S.
Alabama (290).
INEW YORK, November 7, 1862p. m.
	M~ DEAR SIR: I have this moment received the telegraphic dispatch
of the Department relative to the engineers, which will straighten the
matter up. Also the admiral has just sent my sailing orders. My
own opinion would be rather in favor (just now) of the 290 being off
Hatteras, particularly as East and West Judiamen, ships frm South
America, and the homeward-bound California steamers all either make
Hatteras light or come oat of the stream just to the northward of the
cape. I barely got through taking in my stores, balance of my crew
and loaded shells yesterday, and last night at 9 oclock I left the yard
and anchored off the battery to take in powder. This morning it is
blowing and snowing furiously, so that I cant get a boat to get aboard
again. Immediately it moderates I shall get in my powder and lose no
time in getting off. I am still short some 8 firemen, but the engineers
are now looking round town for some and think they will be successful.
To me, it looks like a regular northeast snowstorm and gale, and it may
last to-morrow, and even the next day. You might have something
else to telegraph, but you may rest assured I shall not trifle with any
time.
	The Vanderbilt is now in first-rate condition, and I pray I may have
the opportunity of doing something worthy of so splendid a command.
	Before I close this, let me again thank you sincerely for your, kind-
ness to me personally, and believe that I am,
Faithfully, yours,
C.	II. BALDWIN.
	Hon. G. V. Fox.
Assistant Secretary of the Navy, Washington

Page 539

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	539

Letter from the governor of New York State to the Secretary of the Navy~
requesting that immediate measures be taken for the protection of New
York Harbor.

STATE OF NEW YORK, EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT,
Albany, November 8, 1862.
	SIR:	I have been in New York for a few days past, occnpied in exam-
ining the defenses to the water approaches of that city. While there
I had several interviews with Admiral Paulding, Colonel Delafield,
and Mr. Collector Barney on this subject. As the result of my obser~
vation and counsels I respectfully ask that Admiral Paulding be imme~
diately clothed with authority to take such measures and employ such
means as in his discretion may be deemed proper and necessary for
protecting the harbor of New York and defending it from attack by
water.
	If the Navy Department will grant such authority, and I hope it
may and that quickly, Admiral Paulding will at once anchor the school
ship Savannah in the North River, where she will be prepared to render~
valuable service in the case of necessity, and where, I am assured, that
for all the purposes of a naval school it is as well that she be there as.
where she now lies. He will, if authorized, take the very important
precaution of boarding every steamer and other vessel to ascertain its.
true character before it enters the harbor. Prudence imperatively
demands this step. At present there is neither means nor authority
for doing this. An ironclad ship of war should be placed under his.
command at cnce.
	The vast damage that could be done by a hostile war ship to the prop-
erty of the city of New York before it could be destroyed or taken
renders the course I have recommended a matter of the gravest impor-
tance. I pray you to give to it your immediate and favorable attention..
I am, with high regard, your obedient servant,
E.	D. MORGAN,
Governor.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commander Rodgers, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tioga,.
of cruise in the West Indies,from October 29 to November 8, 1862.

U.	S. S. TIOGA,
Off Stirrup Cay, November 8, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report the arrival this day of the Tioga at
this place. In obedience to your order I sailed from Turtle Harbor on
the 29th ultimo, and the same evening arrived on the bank off Bemini
Islands. Skirting them, I anchored to the south of the Great Isaac.
The wind blew very fresh from the northward and eastward, making
an unusually high sea on the bank. Nothing of interest occurred,
and on Sunday, the 2d, the Octorara arrived. After supplying her
with bread, of which she was short, I sailed for the Auguila Islands,
making the best speed possible, and arriving there the next morning.
I sailed nearlyaroundtheislands, butsawneithervessels,habitation,
nor any living thing. I then kept away for Sagna la Grande, arrivin

Page 540

540	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

the same evening. Not being able to learn anything of the flagship
from the pilot, I ran into the harbor to communicate with the consul;
but finding that he was at Sagua, some 6 miles up the river, and learn-
ing that nothing had been seen or beard of the flagship, I went outside
early next morning, and after cruising a short distance along the coast,
anchored off the harbor in 5 fathoms water. The pilot declined stay-
ing on board without permission of the captain of the port, as it was
against the regulations. I sent an officer to the captain of the port,
who was very polite, but stated that it was impossible to grant my
request; that if one of their own men-of-war desired it, he could not
grant it. The authorities and inhabitants were exceedingly courteous,
the pilots refusing to take any pay, by order, as they said, of the cap-
tain of the port. I sent the money. however, to that officer, with a civil
message. While lying off the port a steamer appeared in the offing.
I got underway to speak her, and while passing the outer buoy ran
ashore, the ship going on the shoal almost imperceptibly, and lying
very quiet while there. When the tide rose, some four hours after, we
hauled her off.
	Thursday, the flagship not making her appearance, and having
learned from the orders of Captain Collins, a copy of which he furnished
me, that he was to meet the Wachusett off Abaco or Stirrup Cay on
Friday, I considered that I should best be carrying out your wishes
by going to Stirrup Cay. I therefore sailed on Thursday, anchoring
late that night on the bank in a norther, and proceeding next day to
this place, finding at anchor here the U. S. S. Massachusetts.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
G.	W. RODGERS,
Commander.
	iRear-Admiral CHAS. WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron.




Report of Captain Pickering, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kear-
sarge, ~f the disability of that vessel, and the arrival of the U. S. S.
Chippewa at Cadiz, Spain, in accordance with advices of diplomatic
officials at aibraltar and Lisbon.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Cadiz, November 8, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to enclose copy of a telegram from tbe IJ. S.
minister at Lisbon, to II. J. Sprague, U. S. consul at ~ibraltar,in refer.
ence to the movement of rebel steamers at the Western Islands. Also
a copy of a letter* from Consul II. J. Sprague to Commander A. Bryson,
in command of the gunboat Chippewa.
	Commander A. Bryson, acting upon the suggestion of Consul Sprague,
arrived at this port with the Chippewa this forenoon, and is now upon
his way to Fayal in obedience to an order from me, a copy of which is
here enclosed.
	The Department will see, per copy of late survey and my letter of
yesterday, the impossibility of the Kearsarge again putting to sea until
4she be docked.

See p. 537

Page 541

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	541

	With deep regret at the unfortunate condition of the Kearsarge at
the present moment,
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERING,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

&#38; cretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosure.]


U.	S. SLOOP KEARSARGE,

Cadiz, November 8, 1862.
	SIR: Agreeably to instructions per telegram of the 6th instant, from
Hon. James E. Harvey, U. S. minister at Lisbon, to II. J. Sprague, esq.,
U. S. consul at Gibraltar, and his (Mr. Spragues) suggestions there-
npon in a letter dated the 7th instant, you will proceed to the Western
Islands.
	Upon your arrival you will communicate with Charles W. iDabney, esq.~
U. S. consul at Fayal, and Commander Craven of the Tuscarora, impart-
ing the intelligence conveyed in said telegram, which communication
will control your subsequent movements.
	As soon as practicable you will return to your station and resume th~
duties assigned you by the honorable Secretary of the Navy.
Jam, respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERING,

Captain..
	Commander A. BRYSON, U. S. Navy,

Commanding Gunboat Chippewa, Cadiz.




Report of Acting Lieutenant Cavendy, U. S. Navy, commanding U. &#38; 
bark Gemsbok, of arrival at Turtle Harbor, Florida, for protection of
coal schooners.

U.	S. BARK GEMSBOK,
Turtle Harbor, Florid a, November 10, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of this ship from St.
Andrews Sound, Georgia, in obedience to orders from Rear-Admiral
Du Pont to report to you, to protect the coal schooners in this harbor,
by order of the Navy Department. Found here the schooner Jos. ]Ili.
Houston, with about 300 tons coal on board.
	On the 9th instant prize schooner Elias Reed put in here in want of
assistance to proceed to Key West. I sent to her an acting masters
mate and two men; she left here on the morning of the 10th instant.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
Enw. CAYENPY,

Acting Lieutenant, Commanding.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Flying AS1quadron

Page 542

~42	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

1?eport cf Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, urging the necessity for a larger force to effectually
carry out the wishes of the Department.

FLAG STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Havana, November 11, 1862.
	DEAR SIR: We have just completed the repairs of the Wachusett at
the dockyard, which the admiral pressed upon me to go to effect, and
has been very civil and obliging in offering and doing everything we
desired. The Wachusett has broken down twelve times since we left
Washington, about every three days, on an average, which disables us
for twelve hours and at sea causes a great loss of time. I had an inkling
of how it would be when I was hurried off so soon from [the] Washington
yard. The tubes in our boilers are very defective and are so liable to
accident, and require so much time to repair, that I am of opinion they
ought to be discarded from all cruising ships of war. With horizontal
tubes plugging is the work of a few minutes, but with the vertical
ones we have to waste some twelve hours to cool oft and empty the
boilers.
	I have your dispatch of the 1st November about the 290. There is
little doubt in my mind of her final destination being the West Indies,
and I so much regret that I have not vessels or force enough to make
her capture certain. I shall certainly do all I can, but to watch the
outlets of the channels and invest them, it is impossible. I have no
news of the Cimarron, and regret to learn the Dacotah has gone in
another direction. The Aspinwall steamers are undoubtedly the final
object of the 290 and she will refit on the Bahama Banks somewhere if
she can get in. I have written before to have more force, and stated
my views fully, and I trust the Department will order them promptly.
We are more likely to hear ot the 290 first at this place, and for this pur-
pose I am obliged to keep a vessel here or touch in every few days for
information. I promise you we shall do all we can, but I do not feel
that the Ibree I have now with me can effectually stop up and visit the
localities where the Alabama, or 290, will probably repair.
	I leave to-morrow morning at daylight to search for her and the other
~vessels named in the letter to the State Department.
Very respectfully yours, etc.,
CHARLES WILKES,
	[Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.]
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
	Secretary of the Navy.




Letter from the Boston Board of Trade to the Secretary of the Navy, urg-
ing the need of and suggesting measures for the protection of Boston
Harbor.
[Private and confidential.]

OFFICE OF THE BOARD OF TRADE,
Boston, November 12, 1862.
	SIR: The undersigned, a committee of this board on the subject of
defense of the harbor, appointed soon after the beginning of the pres-
ent war, have already more than once asked the attention of the Gov-
eminent to the comparatively defenseless state of the harbor of Bo

Page 543

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	543

ton, and have also to-day addressed the honorable Secretary of War
on this subject. In view of the recent reckless depredations of the
piratical steamer Alabama, and her reported near proximity to onr bay,
and also the apparently well authenticated fact recently made public,
that powerful steam rams are now partially constructed in England, to
be used by the rebels in an attack on our principal cities on the North-
ern coast, added to an apprehension (by no means unfounded) that our
country may suddenly be involved in a foreign war, it can not be
regarded strange that this community should be pervaded by deep
solicitude as to the absence of immediate means to make any adequate
defense against an attack from either of the sources referred to. A
public meeting on the exchange on this subject has been proposed, but
discountenanced by more reflecting minds, as calculated to do much
harm by advertising to the world the weakness of our means of defense,
and it is probable that from similar considerations so little has been
published in the papers of the day. Under these circumstances it is
hoped that you will appreciate the motives which lead the undersigned
respectfully but earnestly to urge on your immediate consideration the
importance of yonr cooperation with the War Department, in causing
this harbor to be completely fortified with the least possible delay.
The three forts, Warren, Independence, and Winthrop, which are
designed to mount 551 guns, are now ready to receive 475 guns. Only
153 guns are now actually mounted, and none of these can be said to
be of sufficiently large caliber to make a successful defense against an
armor-plated steamship, especially if she should attempt to enter the
harbor through Broad Sound. The works to receive nearly all the
guns, say about 475, are now complete so far as it depends on the engi-
neers department. It only remains for the requisite ordnance to be
supplied. Until this is done and even afterwards, this harbor can not
be said to be in a proper state of defense without a floating battery.
We are not unaware of the embarrassment which the Government has
suffered from the limited means of supplying ordnance iii its great
emergency, nor would we make the claims of Boston Harbor for pro-
tection unduly prominent, but you will pardon us if we suggest that,
after a war of twenty months, the harbor of the third commercial city
in the Union ought no longer to be allowed by its very weakness to
invite the aggression of a desperate enemy. It is believed by practi-
cal men that through Broad Sound (one of the two principal entrances
to this harbor) a reckless and daring piratical ironclad steamer might
enter without serious injury and lay our city under contribution. Apart
from all other considerations, we need only to allude to the moral effect
of such an act on our cause at home and abroad. It is believed that
our statement as to the present actual condition of the forts will be
found substantiated by recent official reports.
	In view of the foregoing facts, we beg respectfully to suggest that
the new ironclad steamer Nahant (of the monitor class), now nearly
completed by Mr. Loring, be allowed to remain in this harbor for its
defense, at least until the necessary guns are placed in the several for-
tifications of the harbor and the pirate Alabama has been either cap-
tured or destroyed, provided that such disposal of the Nahant be, in any
reasonable degree, compatible with the immediate or more important
requirements of some other branch of the public service.
	At this point we need not say that we do not presume to dictate,
although we should be derelict in our duty if we omitted to present to
your mind the great importance of at once placing this harbor in a
state of defense, and the deep solicitude of this board and of the corn

Page 544

544	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

munity generally in reference to this matter. May we not hope that
this subject will receive the prompt action that its importance demands?
We remain, respectfully, your most obedient servants,
EDWARD S. TOBEY,
F.	W. LINCOLN, Jr.,
~N. T. GLIDDEN,
C. 0. WHITMORE,
THOS. ASPINWALL,
WM. E. COFFIN,
Jos. S. FAY,
Committee.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.

[Endorsement.]

	There is always some naval force at Boston, while other places on the
coast, with the exception of Portsmouth, are not so favored. Were a
crniser to enter the harbor of Boston, which is very improbable, there
is always a force to see to her. It can hardly be supposed that an
armored vessel prepared for operations elsewhere should be detained
at Boston and the expedition broken [up] under a remote apprehension
that a hostile vessel might attempt to visit that place.
W.
[Second endorsement.]

	The armor-clad vessels, of which the Nahant is one, are preparing
for important operations which alone can be conducted to a successful
termination by that class of vessels, and I am sure you would be the
last persons to desire to arrest the contemplated expedition.




Report of the commandant of the navy yard, New York, of the sailing
of U. S. steamers Vanderbilt and Courier.

NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, November 12, 1862.

	SIR:	I have to report the departure on the 10th instant of the steamer
Vanderbilt, Acting Lieutenant Commanding Baldwin, and the store-
ship Courier, Acting Master Cressy, the latter for Port Royal.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
H.	PAULDING-,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Report of Commander Ronckendorff U. S. Navy, commanding U. S.
S.	San Jacinto, of arrival at the island of Barbados, West Indies.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP SAN JACINTO,
Carlisle Bay, Island of Barbados, November 13, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report my arrival here this morning, audi
shall leave again on Satnrday evening, or sooner if the engines are in
order. I shall take in 75 tons of coal and will follow out the instruc-
tions received from Rear-Admiral Lee. We arrived at Bermuda o

Page 545

OPERATIONS OF TUE CRUISERSUNION.	545

November 1 at 3 p. in., and left by order of Captain Glisson, of the
]Ifohican, as soon o s the weather would permit, which was November 4,
6:30 a. in. No news.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. RONOKENBOEFF,

Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C


Letter from C. H. Marshall, esq., for the New York Chamber of Commerce,
enqui ring in regard to measures for the capture of C. S. S. Alabama.
COMMERCE CHAMBER OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK,
New York, November 14, 1862.
	SIR:	Ii address you as chairman of a special committee of the Cham-
ber of Commerce to enquire what measures have beeii taken to capture
the rebel pirate Alabama, and also whether the Government will grant
commissions to private vessels if fitted out under promise of reward
by citizens for that purpose.
Ii have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	II. MARSHALL,
Chairman.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Commttnder Clary, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tioga, of
the necessity of proceeding to Key West, 111a., for repairs and supplies.

U. S. GUNBOAT TIOGA,
Stirrup Cays, Nove ~ber 16, 1862.
	SIR:	I regret to inform you that we are compelled to leave at once
for Key West for supplies and repairs, we having but ten days rations
on board. Tue 0ctorara might hold out for five days, so far as provi-
sions are concerned, bat lie starboard boiler is dangerously defective,
but if attended to at once could be remedied at Key West. Even now
Commander Collins thinks it prudent to have convoy.
I hope to return here by the 20th.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
A. G. CLARY,
tiiommander, U. S. Navy.
Hear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding U. S. Sqnadron, West Indies.


Report of Captain MeKinstry, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Daco-
tah, of arrival at New York from cruise in search of C. S. S. Ala-
bama (290).

U.	S. S. DACOTAH,
New York, November 17, 1862.
	SIR:	in conipliance with your telegram dated the 3d, and Rear-
Admiral Pauldings order of the 4th instant, the Dacotah left this port
on the evening of the 5th, in search of the rebel privateer Alabama, or
290.	Cape Hatteras and its vicinity being made by ships from China,
	123A	3

Page 546

546	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

the Windward Islands, and those bound north in the Gulf Stream, it
was deemed advisable to cruise in that region with the hope of falling
in with the rebel marauder. After proceeding toward the east end of
Long Island I stood for Cape Hatteras. Severe gales on the 7th, 8th,
9th, and 10th instant prevented a direct course being made, and caused
slight damages, detailed in a report to the Chief of the Bureau of Con-
struction, etc., a copy of which is enclosed.
	I regret that not the slightest intelligence could be obtained respect-
ing the 290 from the vessels spokeii and boarded, a tabular list of which
is herewith transmitted.
	My health is much impaired, and I feel compelled to request a leave
for five or six weeks for its restoration.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J. P. MOKINSTRY,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
lion. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy. Washington, ft C.


Report of Commander Bryson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Chippewaq
of arrival at Payal and intended departure for Algeciras, Spain.

U.	S. GUNBOAT CHIPPEWA,
Eayal, November 17, 1862.
	SIR: I enclose copy of a note* received from U. S. consul at Gibral-
tar, with telegram* from our minister at Lisbon; also of my orderst
received from Captain Pickering at Cadiz, which orders, as you will
see, were to proceed to Fayal and communicate with Charles W. Dab-
ney, esq., and yourself. On my arrival at this place (November 14),
after a passage of six days from Cadiz, I at once communicated with
Mr. IDabney. I learned that the Tuscarora had left the day before my
arrival. None could tell me where she had gone, nor for what length
of time she might be absent. Feeling that it would be useless for me,
under the circumstances, to make even an attempt to find the Tuscarora,
and that it would be absolute loss of time to await here her return, I
take this as the only means in my power of imparting to you the infor-
mation contained in Mr. Harveys telegram. I have coaled and pro-
visioned here, and after having received oil, will leave this place on
this (Monday) evening for Algeciras. On my way (as it will be in my
track) I will, if possible, look in at Angra.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
	A. BRYSON,
	Commander T. A. CRAVEN,	Commander.
Commanding Steam Sloop Tuscarora.


Letter from the governor of New York State to the Secretary of the Navy,
ret ative to measures for protection of New York Harbor.

STATE OF NEW YORK, EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT,
Albany, November 17, 1862.
	SIR:	On my return from Washington I find your letter of the 11th
instant, enclosing a copy of a communication to Rear-Admiral Pauld-
ing in reference to the anchorage of the school-ship Savannah.
	~See p. 537.	tSee p.541

Page 547

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	547

	I take this occasion to refer to the subject of my interview with you
in reference to the defenses of New York Harbor, and to express my
gratification at its result. I had then just been informed that Rear-
AdudralPaulding was satisfied that the ASvavannah was unsuitable for the
service specified. Accordingly you wisely determined that the Roanoke
should be placed at the disposal of the rear-admiral immediately on her
completion as an ironclad. In the meantime you directed that one of the
present ironclads be left in the harbor until the Roanoke is completed.
	The great importance of this decision is shown by the proposed
action of the municipal authorities of New York, who have already
taken some measures for raising a fund to protect the harbor by private
subscription.
I am, with much respect, your obedient servant,
E.	ID. MORIAN,
[6~overnor.]
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.




Letter from the Boston Marine Society to the Secretary of the Navy, set-
ting forth the necessity and suggesting measures for the protection of
Boston flarbor.

BOSTON, November 18, 1862.
	SIR: The undersigned, a committee of the Boston Marine Society,
have been instructed to call to your notice the defenseless condition of
the harbor of Boston and to respectfully solicit that official action which
shall place it secure against the attack of an enemy. Our citizens
are deeply concerned on the subject and look to the Government, who
are possessed with all the powers which are required to make such
arrangements as will afford that protection which shall allay their fears
and anxieties.
	There are obvious reasons in the history and condition of the city of
Boston which might tempt an audacious and ambitious foe to lay it under
contribution, or to waste and destroy the property of its people. The
navy yard, the marine and navy hospitals, and other public institu-
tions are so situated that they almost invite the assault of a vigorous
foe. The applause with which such an act would be hailed by the ene-
inies of the Union in the Southern States would nerve the invader to
run the risk, while the moral effect abroad, should it be unfortunately
successful, might be disastrous to the cause in which our country is
engaged.
	A recent memorial to your Department from the Board of Trade of
this city has so fully set forth the facts in the case that it precludes
the necessity of a more elaborate detail. We heartily endorse the
appeal for a larger and more efficient armament for the forts, as well
as the suggestion that the Nahant may remain in this harbor, or, if that
is not possible, that some other ironclad vessel may be permanently sta-
tioned in its waters.
	We would also, in addition, respectfully suggest the expediency of
having at the navy yard, fully armed and equipped. a vessel of war
which should be ready at a moments notice to proceed to sea and mee

Page 548

548	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

the foe at the entrance of the harbor, should pilot or homeward-bound
vessels give notice of their approach.
	Having thus, in obedience to the instruction of the Marine Society,
laid the subject before you, we have the honor to remain,
	   Very truly, yours,	OSBORN ilowES.
		THOMAS LAMB.
		F.	W. LINCOLN, Jr.
		CALEB CURTIS.
		W1~I. BRAMHALL.
		B. L. ALLEN.
		ItOET. B. STORER. -
	Hon. GwEON WELLES,	THOMAS C. SMITH.
	       Secretary of the Navy.


Letter from the collector of customs at New York to the Secretary of the
Navy, relative to guarding the approaches -to New York Harbor by

means of armed revenue steamers.
CUSTOM-HOUSE, NEW YORK,
Collectors Office, November 19, 1862.
	SIR: In a conference just held with Hear-Admiral Paulding I learn
that the Passaic, the only monitor completed at this port, has been
ordered away and is about to proceed to sea; that there is not suffi-
cient armament on the Savannah; that there are no guns on the ferry-
boats; that the boilers of the Dacotah are unfit for service, and that
orders are given for her repairs; that the Roanoke will not be ready
for service within sixty days, and that there is no vessel belonging to
the Navy at this station which in her present condition and with
existing orders can be used for the defense of this harbor and city.
Under instructions of the Secretary of the Treasury, and with the
understanding had with the Navy Department that it would at all
times be ready on two hours notice to protect this harbor amid city
agaii~st an enemy, I have made arrangements to guard by armed rev-
enue steamers the approaches to the harbor, so as to give tiniely notice
to the military and naval authorities here of the coming of hostile ves-
sels, and probably to offer such resistance, with the aid of the land
forces, as will at least occasion sach vessels a temporary delay in their
approach, and I am exceedingly desirous of being able to assnre the
citizens of the city that the naval authorities are ready to perform the
duty which they have undertaken of destroying any hostile vessels
which may by possibility reach the harbor.
I am, sir, with great respect, your obedient servant,
-	HIRAM BARNEY.
Hon. GlDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


~Teiegram.]

NEW YORK, November 20, 1862.
(Received Washington, 4:25 p. in.)
	We respectfully request that the Passaic remain for the defense of
this harbor until the iliontauk is ve~dy for that service.
		E. D. MORcfAN.
	Hon. G. WELLES,	JIIRA1I BARNEY,
Secretary of Navy

Page 549

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	549

Ilscajpe of C. S. S. Alabama (290) frem the U. S. S. San Jacinto, at
Martinique, November 19, 1862.

Report of Commander Ronokendorif, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S San Jacinto, enclosing
correspondence and reports on the subject.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP SAN JACINTO
Fort Royal, Island of Martinique, November 21, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to submit the following statement with refer-
ence to the escape of the rebel steamer Alabama, or 290, from this port:
	I arrived here on the morning of the 19th instant, and finding the Ala-
bama at anchor off the town and nnder the guns of the fort, I at once
prepared to attack in case she attempted to escape. Of course I did
not anchor, as that wonid have involved the necessity of remaining
twenty-four hours. Shortly after my arrival a French war steamer
came out from the arsenal and anchored near the A labama. The coin-
manding officer came on board with a communication from the gover-
nor of the island, a translation of which 1 herewith enclose, with my
reply.
	I sent by a fishing boat an invitation to the captain of the brig Hamp-
den, of Bangor, Me. (which is here discharging cargo), to cooperate
with me by signaling during the night the movements of the Alabama.
He came on board and took back with him seveial rockets with instruc-
tions to use them if the Alabama should get underway, firing them to
the north if she should go by the north shore of the bay and to the
south if by the south shore of the bay. rfhiS was near evening. As soon
as it was dark I dispatched two boats, one under charge of Acting
Master Baker, the other under charge of Acting Masters Mate
Keene, who were placed near the beach on each side of the bay with
red and blne signal lights, so as to communicate the movements of the
rebel vessel in the event of her going out. I kept the San Jacinto near
the middle of the bay, so as to command both sides, if possible.
	At 8:10 p. m. three rockets were sent up in a southerly direction.
We immediately steamed over along the southern shore, opening the
point so in case she passed I could see her. I would here remark that
the bay is 6 miles wide where, by the direction of the governors let-
ter, I had leave to operate, and the land quite high on both sides.
	Officers with glasses were stationed in the most favorable parts of
the vessel, but were unable to see anything of the rebel steamer. The
night was dark and cloudy, with a light rain falling, and the opinion of
all was that she could not have been seen over half a mile, and not over
300 yards when covered with so dark a backgronnd of hills. The offi-
cers and men were kept at quarters during the night, and all seemed as
zealous as possible, but from the width of the bay aiid the darkness of
the night our efforts were fruitless. The enemy escaped, notwithstand-
ing all our vigilance.
	In the morning, as soon as it was light enough to discover that the
Alabama had left her anchorage, I sent Lieutenant-Couimander Chand-
ler on shore to communicate with the captain of the Hampden, who told
him he had information from a source which he considered perfectly relia-
ble that the Alabama had not passed out of the harbor, but was secreted
in the upper bay. I also received a communication from the shore of
a similar purport, and thinking that there might be something in the
report I sent Acting Master Coop in charge of a party to examine all
parts of the bay, but the rebel steamer was not to be found.
-	I learn that the battery of the Alabama consists of six 32-pounders

Page 550

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
550

one 100-pounder rifle, and one 68; the two latter are pivots. I under-
stand that an English bark, loaded with coal and four 32-pounders,
sailed from here the day before I arrived to meet the Alabama at some
convenient place and there transfer her cargo. Having but a supply
of five days coal on board, I shall continue the search on my way to
St. Thomas, looking in at the different points where it is probable that
the rebel or coal ship might be found.
	For the correctness of the facts in this communication I refer to the
accompanying documents.
	In conclusion, I need hardly add that my regret for this occurrence
is deep and sincere, but feeling that I have done all that I could with
the means at my disposal, would respectfully request a court of enquiry
to investigate the whole affair.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WA. RONCKENDORFF,

Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
	P. 5.I could find out nothing of the future movements of the Ala-
bama.
[EnclosuresI

[Translation.l

GOVERNMENT OF MARTINIQUE,
Office of the Governor, No. 432,
Fort de France, Nov ember 19, 1862.
	SIR: Since this morning the United States ship under your com-
mand has been in the waters of France, having the appearance of
blockading one of the ports of the colony which I govern. This position
is one which I can not permit, sir, especially as, in obedience to the
instructions of the Emperor, I am disposed to grant to the vessels of
the Union the same facilities and impartiality as to vessels of the
States which pretend to form a separate confederacy.
	I have therefore the honor, sir, to invite you to anchor in the roads
of the Fort de France, provided you submit to all the consequences of
thus anchoringthat is to say, to the obligation of not getting under-
way until twenty-four hours after the Alabama, should she leave before
you, as the latter could not leave until twenty-four hours after you,
should you go to sea before her. But should you not accede to this
arrangement, I can but request you to leave the waters of France with-
out delay and keep at a distance of 3 miles outside of the point which
forms the entrance of the bay.
	Receive, sir, the assurance of my high esteem.
DR MAUSSION DR CANDI~,
The Rear-Admiral, Governor of Martinique.


U.	S. STEAM SLOOP SAN JACINTO,
Fort Royal, Island of Martinique, November 20, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communi-
cation of the 19th instant, and it is my desire to comply with the regu-
lations alluded to in that letter.
With highest considerations, I am, your obedient servant,
WA. IRONCKENDORFF,
Commander.
Honorable ADMIRAL,
Governor of the Island of Martinique

Page 551

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	551

CONSULATE OF THE U. S. ois AlVEERICA AT MARTINIQUE,
~	Pierre, November 19, 1862.
	SIn:	I consider it my duty to inform you of the arrival here last
night of the following persons, lately prisoners on board the rebel
steamer Alabama, and landed by her yesterday morning: George H.
Fairfield, late U. S. consul at iVilanritius, and family; Captain Lincoln,
ship T. B. Wales, and family; Captain Mellen, ship Levi Starbuek, and
43 seamen, being the crews of the said ships. I have made arrange-
ments for sending the seamen to St. Thomas, as there are no American
vessels here, nor none expected.
	Captain Mellen has offered to be the bearer of this, and if he is
allowed to go on board your vessel will be able to give you full partic-
ulars of the rebels.
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant,
JOHN CAMPBELL,
U.	S. Acting Con8nl.
	COMMANDING OFFICER OF THE
U.	S. STEAM FRIGATE SAN JACINTO,
Fort de France.



Report of Acting Master Baker, U. S. Navy, U. S. S. San Jacinto, relative to the escape
of C. S. S. Alabama (290), November 19, 1862.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP SAN JACINTO
Fort Royal Bay, November 19 [20], 1862.
	SIR:	According to your order, I left the ship with the Dolphin
at 6:30 p. m. and proceeded toward Fort Royal to watch the move-
ments of the rebel steamer 290, or Alabama. The night was dark and
thick, with a light rain. As near as I could judge I lost sight of the
San Jacinto before I had pulled a half mile. She was out to seaward
of me on shore. I could not see a vessel a quarter of a mile off between
me and the land. I pulled in shore about I mile from Point des
N6gres [Negro Point] light-house until I got about three-quarters of a
mile from shore, and pulled up for Point des N6gres [Negro Point] and
then hove np.
	There was a boat went by me, and I took it to be the captain of the
American brig Hampden. After he got by me I pulled ahead around the
light-house,and then I heard the 8 oclock gun fire. At 8:20p.m. I
saw two rockets go np to the southward; not knowing the meaning, I
concluded they were sent up by some one living on shore.
	I was in sight of the French man-of-war and went up close enough
to hear them talk, and pulled around the harbor to find the Alabama,
but could not see her. I went close to the French man-of war and
anchored my boat. I had a good view of the harbor, if any vessel made
any move to go out throughout the night. There was no vessel made
a move to go out.
	At 4:30 a. m. I started out of the bay to find the San Jacinto.
	At 6:45 a. m. I retnrned on board.
I am, respectftilly, your obedient servant,
JOHN BAKER,
Acting Master, U. S. Navy.
Commander WILLIAM RONCKENDORFF,
U.	S. Steam Sloop San Jacinto

Page 552

552	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSIJNION.

Report of Lieutenant-Cornmcnder Chandler, U. S. Navy, executive officer U. S. S. San
Jacinto, relative to the escape of C. S. S. Alabama (~29O).

U. S. STEAM SLOOP SAN JACIINTO,
Fort Royal, ]Ifartinique, Norember 20, 1862.
	Sin: Jn obedience to your order I left the ship this morning to coin-
municate with the American brig flarnpden, lying at anchor about a
cable length from the fort.
	On approaching her I was hailed from a boat near her (apparently a
man-of war boat), and told that I could not go on board the brig withont
first going to the guard steamer near by. I went on shore and there
met the captain of the brig. I asked him about the Alabama, and he
told me she was still inside of the headlands; and also that he had a
man, ill whom he placed reliance, on the lookout for her who told him
that she went out as far s the white buoy, and then turned into the
inlet or harbor to the right and had anchored behind a high point. I
asked him if lie believed implicitly what had been told him, and his
reply was, I believe it as sincerely as anything I was ever told with-
out seeing with my own eyes.
	From what I saw of the captain of the Hampden, I think him a good
Union man and one who has the utmost regard for truth. Last night
I furnished him with four rockets from this ship, with written instruc-
tions how to throw them in c se the Alabama got nnderway. The
instructions were these: If she goes to the southward, throw a rocket
to the southward. If she goes to the northward, throw a rocket to the
northward; and follow her with your boat, making signals with a light.
He told me that about twenty minutes before he got to his vessel, the
Alabama got nnderway and stood to the southward, and that as soon
as he got on board he threw three rockets in that direction.
	He further stated that a boat came from the guard ship, hoisted his
boat up and landed him on shore, with orders to hold no communication
with his vessel, and that the officer spoke of fining him for throwing up
the rockets.
	Respectfully, yours,	11. CHANDLER,

	Lieutenant- Commander and Executive Officer, U. S. Navy.
Commander WM. ROCKENDORFF, U. S. Navy.



Report of Acting Master Coop, U. S. Navy, U. S. S. San Jacinto, relative to the escape
of C. S. S. Alabama (p90).

U.	S. Snip SAN JACINTO,
	November 21, 1862.
	Sin: [n obedience to your order I left the ship in the Dolphin at 8:20
p. m. on the night of the 20th to examine Fort Royal Bay and ascer-
tain if the rebel steamer Alabama was there. I proceeded up the bay,
remained there until daylight, pulled around Gros Island, took a thor-
ough look all round the bay, and started for the ship from the last-
named island at 5:25 a. in., being positive that the rebel steamer
Alabama was not there, or any other vessel.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
HENRY J. Coop,
Acting Master, U. S. Ship Sa dacinto.
Commander WILLiAM RONCKENDORFF

Page 553

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	553

Second report of Lieutenant-Commander Chandler, U. S. Navy, executive officer, U. S.
S. San Jacinto, relaticc to the escape of C. S. S. Alabama (290).

U.	S. SHIP SAN JAGINTO,
At Sea, Norember 23, 1862.
	SIR:	In obedience to your order I went on shore on the 20th instant,
accompanied by Dr. Bragg, of this ship, and called upon the governor
of the island of Martinique. I informed him you were not well and
had desired me to present your compliments to him and your regrets at
not being able to pay your respects in person. 1 told him if the Ala-
bama had left the waters of Fort Royal you would, if you had time,
come in and exchange the usual salutes and civilities. I handed him
your reply to his communication, and told him you had endeavored to
comply with all its terms as strictly as possible. That the ship might
at some time have been within less than 3 miles of the shore, but not
to your knowledge.
	The conversation was carried on through an interpreter and the gov-
ernor replied that he was sorry you were ill; that the Alabama had
sailed, he did not know where, and that he had no fault to find about
the San Jacinto coining too near the shore. lie also said, Tell your
captain that he has free permission to come to anchor, communicate as
much as he desires with the shore, and leave whenever he is ready.~~
Also, that if you are in want of anything he would be In ppy to supply
those wants. I thanked him in your behalf and the interview ended.
	As you informed me you had 110 chart of Fort Royal or any of the
ports in the West Indies, and requested me to bny 5ome if I had an
opportunity, I went in search of them. I could find only a French
chart of Fort Royal Harbor, which I bought and handed to you when
I came on board.
	On passing the American brig Hampden on my return, tile captain
was on deck and I spoke to him; he told me he was to be confined on
board the guard ship that night. Several of the natives of the island
informed nie while I was on shore that the Alabama was still inside
the headland in the upper bay, with her topmasts down to prevent
being seen.
Respectfully, yours,
R.	CHANDLEn,
Lieutenant- Commander, Executive Officer.
Commander WM. RONUKENDOREF,
U.	S. Steam Sloop San Jacinto.


Report of Acting Masters Mate Keene, U. S. Navy, U. S. S. Sa J cinto, relative to the

escape of C. S. S. Alabansa (290).

SLOOP OF WAR SAN JACINTO,
November 23, 1862.
	SIR:	In obedience to your orders I herewith make a report of my
boat expeditiou to watch the pirate Alabama, while she was being
blockaded in the bay of Fort Royal, Martinique, by this ship. On the
night of the 19th of this month I left the ships side I should judge at
about half past 6 oclock, and proceeded to the south side of the bay,
according to orders, with a blue light as a signal. I lost sight of the
ship in ten minutes after leaving the side, as it was very dark and
cloudy and she was shut in by the land; it was raining a little at the
time

Page 554

554	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I arrived over to the south side of the bay to within about half a
mile of the land, and got soundings in 115 fathoms water. At this time
I saw three rockets fired from where I judged the Alabama to lay, and
to the southward. I pulled up the lead and watched, and went up
toward where she lay, but saw nothing of her. I then got in a posi-
tion where the land was lowest, so that I could see her iu case she went
betweenme and the shore, and lay there for about an hour, and then went
toward where I judged her to lie, but could not see anything of her.
Previous to this and soon alter the rockets were fired, I saw alight out-
side of where I lay, which I judged must have heen one of her signals,
as it went out of sight two or three times. I heard some voices on the
water and thought it was her boat, but when she came close to, I found
that it was a shore boat, althongh she might have beeu the one that
gave the signals. I lay off and on nutil morning, but saw nothing.
	Just before daylight I started for the ship, as I did not want to stop
and be seen by the Alabama in case she was there by daylight.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
HENRY T. KEENE,
Acting Masters Mate, U. S. Navy.
	[Commander WM. RONCKENDORFF,
U.	S. Sloop San Jacinto.]


Abstract of log of U. S. S. San Jacinto, Commander William Ronckendorff; November 19, 20,
1882.

	November 19.At 5:30 a. m. made Port Royal Bay [Fort Royal, Mar-
tinique], entered the harbor, and discovered a steamer at anchor near
the fort answering to the description of the Alabama. At 8 a. m. the
steamer at anchor hoisted the rebel flag, called all hands to quarters,
cleared away the battery, and made every preparation for an attack.
From 9 to meridian, lying off and on watching the movements of the
rebel steamer, which still kept her anchor down. At 1:20 p. m. the
port physician came alongside and gave the ship pratique. A French
naval officer came on board from the governor to the captain. From
4 to 6 p. in., standing off and on watching the movements of the Ala-
bama. At 6 the captain of the American bark Niampden, accompanied
by a whaling captain (whose ship he reported to have been destroyed
by the Alabama), came on board. Gave the captain of the llampden
four rockets, with instructions how to use them iu case the Alabama
got underway. At 6:30 dispatched the Dolphin, under charge of Act-
ing Master Baker, and the diughey under charge of Acting Masters
Mate Keene, one to the north and the other to the south shore of the
bay, to signalize to the ship if the Alabama attempted to pass out.
Called the men to quarters and ordered them to put on their side arms
for the night and sleep on deck near their guns. At 8:20 three rockets
were sent up on shore to the southward. Manned the battery and
stood toward the south shore under full steam. Weather overcast and
drizzling rain at intervals. At 12, the ship near the south shore and
nothing in sight.
	November 20.At daylight could not see the Alabama in any part of
the harbor. At 6:30 a. m. the Dolphin and dinghey returned. At 7
Lieutenant-Commander Chandler went on shore to comnmuuicate with
Captain INlickerson, of the brig Hampden, the ship lying in the middle
of the channel. At 8:20 Acting Master Coop left the ship in the
Dolphin on a reconnoissance up the bay

Page 555

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	555

Report of Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Sonoma, transmitting statement of vessels boarded and spoken during
crusse.
U.	S. S. SONOMA,
Off Stirrup Gays, November 23, 1862.
	Sin: I enclose herewith a statement of the vessels boarded and
spoken by me since separating from the flagship off Havana.
	My cruising ground has extended from the Beminis and Memory
Rock on the west to Eleuthera on the east, Man of War Cay on the
north, and New Providence on the south. In company with the Octo-
rara this vessel crossed the Little Bahama Bank, entering upon it at
Memory Rock and leaving the Banks at the Elbow through Man of
War Channel.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
T.	II. STEvENS,
Commander.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES, U. S. Navy,
Commanding West India Squadron.



Letter from the U. S. consul at Nassau, New Pro vidence, to Acting Rear-
Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, of
condition ~f affairs at that port, including list of vessels with contra-
band cargoes.

U.	S. CONSULATE AT NASSAU, NEW PROVIDENCE,
November 23, 1862.
	SIR: * * On your first appearance off this port I got a small
schooner and went outside to have a persoiial interview with you, but
night had closed in, and by the time I crossed the bar both ships were
standing offshore. I chased you for an hour, but as I did not seem to
gain on you, and as the ni~-ht was threatening, with an ugly sea run-
ning, I at length returned to port.
	When your ships hove in sight on the 20th instant I was in bed, suf-
fering from a severe attack of inflammatory rheumatism and lumbago,
the first of the kind I have ever had, after twenty-seven years of sailor
hardships and exposnres. I attribute it to my exposures in the Polar
ice fields in 1855.
	While your vessels were still in sight, standing to the eastward, Cap-
tain Malcolm, of II. M. S. Barracouta, came to my rooms, and in a very
excited state informed me that he had sent his boat off to the admirals
ship with the usual courtesies, and that the flagship had not deigned
to commnnicate with the officer in the boat, nor had she even slackened
her speed as the latter approached. Captain Malcolm also said that
the pilot who had gone alongside of the flagship had told him that when
he told the admiral that he could not anchor at or off this port with-
out first obtaining the governors permission to do so, the admiral
or executive officer had replied, that he should anchor if he saw fit to
do so without any ieference to the governors wishes or prohibitions.
	Captain Malcolm then said that he considered it his duty to call
upon me and let me know that if either of the American crnisers
should anchor off this port, before obtaining the governors consent, he
shonld fire upon them at once, and that he had put his ship in readi-
ness for action before he left her to come on shore

Page 556

556	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I suggested to Captain Malcolm that a drunken Bahama pilots dic-
tum was not the best authority, and could hardly be taken as sufficient
grounds for proceeding to extremities. He seemed to agree with me
in this respect, and after expressing his high (lispleasure at the whole
proceeding of the United States cruisers then oft the port, he took his
leave. Great excitement was manifested throughout the town, and
many canards were in circulation, one to the effect that Admiral
Wilkes had sent word to the governor to . The governor has
had no official correspondence with me on the subject, and he,in com-
mon with all the Bahama officials, has treated me in the most uncour-
teous manner for many months past, so that I have paid no visits to
government house, save those which occasion demanded.
	The governors treatment of my old friend Captain McKinstry, in the
Dacotah, was uncourteous and unfriendly in the extreme.
	The day after you left this locality the steamers Leopard and Anton-
ice, formerly the Herald, arrived at this port direct from Charleston,
S. C.~ with 1,600 bales of cotton and a number of passengers from
Dixie. The Leopard came in from the westward and the Antonica
from the eastward. The Herald has probably been sold to the Con-
federate States of America, as with her name she has changed her flag,
and now flies the miserable rag of the rebels at her peak. These
steamers will doubtless soon leave to run the blockade again. I am
under the impression that the blockade runners hug the Eleuthera
shore, stretching off well to the eastward until they run their latitude
up, when they haul in for the coast and watch their opportunity to
effect an entrance.
	The following is a list of vessels now here, laden with contraband
cargoes and intending to land them, if possible, in Secessia, viz:
	No. 1. Atlantic. Brigantine; black, with narrow white ribbon around
the bends; cook and cabin houses freshly painted a bright green; short,
clump of a vessel; dull sailer.
	No.2. Leopard. Long, low steamer; side-wheel; single pipe; schooner
rigged; masts and pipe very raking; painted lead color.
	No. 3. Herald, or Antonica. Much the same description as the
Leopard; no bowsprit, very short mainmast.
	No.4. Mariner. A Wilmington tug-boat, with dilapidated engine; is
to leave about Christmas for some Southern port.
	No. 5. Bonita. Iron propeller; black, white ring arcund smoke pipe,
6 feet from the top; barkentine rig; very fast; is pr
with cotton for Europe.	-	obably loading
	I have granted several licenses to small vessels to take salt to Beau-
fort, N. C., lately, but I shall not issue any more after this date.
	On the night of the 19th instant the U. S. gunboat ~onoma caine off
the port and Captain Stevens sent his pilot, Anthony Sweeting, on
shore with a communication to me at 12 oclock midnight. I seut him
full information of matters here, amid informed himn that the steamer
Kate had left this port on Friday, the 14th November, on her forty-
fourth successful trip to Dixie. Her former captain, Lockwood, has
gone to Canada, it is said, to purchase a fast steamer for the blockade
business, having reaped a large fortune during the past year. I was
informed by a friendly Conch that she was at Harbor Island that even-
ing, and I sent the information to Captain Stevens.
	I have sent by Captain Loroda several more Bahama pilots to you,
with dispatches containing full advices of all the news here, and the
rebel movements; also duplicates to any commanders of the United
States cruisers of the West India or Gulf Squadron

Page 557

OPERATIONS 01 THE CRUISERSUNION.	557

	I trust you will make known to the Department that I have cordially
cooperated with you, iii trying to balk the unholy schemes of the rebels
and their Bahama sympathizers. I send you copies of the local papers,
containing strictures upon yon, which can not fail to amuse you.
	You will not be surprised to learn that you are not a favorite among
the English or the Conchs, but for every word of denunciation they
pronounce your countrys history will make amends by crowning your
name with glory and well-deserved renown.
	~ou will notice in the Herald of the 22d, enclosed, a proclamation
foroidding any British subject to engage on board the war vessels of
belligerents, and it may be advisable to engage your pilots in such a
manner as to evade this document.
	Charleston itself is not more entirely secession than Nassau, and I
have had a most unpleasant billet as United States consul here. I
hope to have a personal interview with you ere long, and you may
depend upon my active and hearty cooperation in everything that will
tend to the glory of our beloved country and the speedy downfall of
this hellish rebellion.
I have thc honor to be, your most obedient servant,
SAME. WR1TJNcT,
U.	S. Consul.
	~Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES, U. S. Navy,
Commanding West India ASquadron.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of the cruise of the flag steamer Wachusett, from
November 12 to 24, 1862.

FLAG STEAMER WACHIJSETT,
Stirrup Cays, November 24, 1862.
	SIR: I have to report my arrival at this point with the Santiago de
Cuba in company. The Wachusett left Havana on the 12th instant
and procveded to Sagna la Grande, off which place we fell in with the
Santiago de Cuba, just From Key West, where I had dispatched her,
as I informed you, for supplies of provisions, etc., for the vessels of the
squadron.
	Off Sagna Ia Grande I expected to have fallen in with the Tioga,
which had been sent to cruise there from Turtle Harbor, under my
orders of the 28th October. The Wachusett and Santiaqo de Cuba
cruised between Sagna la Grande and the Paredon Grande tight-house,
anchored in at Cay Frances, and had communication with our consul
there, Mr. Stone. There were three American vessels lying at Cay
Frances, one of them the bark Betsey Williams, for which vessel I
had acceded to our consul-generals reqnest to furnish an officer to take
her to the United States. Acting Master Bunce was ordered. lie
joined the vessel at this place but the day before he was to have sailed
he died suddenly, it was reported of fever, but it has since transpired
that he was poisoned by the mate and steward, who were then under-
going an examination before the consul, the steward having turned
states evidence against the mate. My duties did not permit me to
detain the vessel, intending in a few days to revisit the place and make
more particular inquiries, and, if safe, order a post-mortem examina-
tion.
	INothing w~s ~e~ri of tIre Tioga, or heaixl from her, and I conclude

Page 558

558	OPERATIONS OF THE CRIJISERSUNION.

to pass the whole length of the Grand [Great] Bank, from nearly onpo-
site the east point of Cay Sal to the bottom of the tongue of the
ocean with the &#38; tntiago de Cuba in company, and to pass into it
between the many sand bars which make there. This we did after
being on the bank two nights and a day. Thence we passed over this
sheet of water to its north side, where is situated Green Cay, where the
Oreto was fitted out. This cay lies immediately on the tongue of the
ocean, about 60 miles south of Nassau. No signs of vessels or prepar-
ations for the supplying of vessels were found there. The next day we
sailed for Nassau, looked in oft the light-house, and proceeded to this
anchorage, where we were joined by the Sonoma, and found here also
our coal vessel, the Urana, from Bermuda, out of which we have filled
up. The Tioga, under the command of Commander Clary, left here the
day before our arrival, to be absent sixty hours, and is momentarily
expected to join. The Octorara went to Key West for provisions on
the 18th and will speedily return to her station at this point. The
Octorara has made one capture, the Elias Reed, of St. Marys, Ga. I
emiclose you a copy of Commander Collins letter* to me in reference to
her.
	Our stay here will be very short, when the vessels will again resume
the stations I have asssigned them.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
[Acting] Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Letter from Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding
West India Squadron, to the Secretary of the Navy, stating the urgent
necessity of an increased force under his command.

FLAG STEAMER WACIIUSETT,
Stirrup Cay, November 25, 1862.
	SIR:	To effectually carry out the wishes and intention of the Depart-
ment in this region it is absolutely necessary that the force under my
command should be increased. I beg leave to call the attention of the
honorable Secretary of the Navy to my previous letters on this subject.
I have only five vessels at my disposal, and these are very short-handed.
I therefore urge upon the Department to send me at least 100 men and,
if possible, the number of vessels I have asked, so that every point of
ingress and egress to Nassau and other Confederate rendezvous may be
guarded. I am sadly in need ofjuuior officers. I have just been obliged
to transfer two from this ship to the Sonoma. She has but two watch
officers left. The first lieutenant and an acting master are broken down,
and when a survey can be held upon them they will, no doubt, be sent
home.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
[Acting] Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

See p. 533

Page 559

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	559

Report of Commander Ronchendorif, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
San Jacinto, of continued cruise in search of C. S. S. Alabama
(290).
U.	S. SLOOP SAN JACIINTO,
Island of St. Thomas, November 26, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my arrival here last night, after hav-
ing mu close along the western shore of the island of Dominique
[Dominica], looking in at the different anchorages. When off Guade-
loupe I spoke the schooner Alice, of New York, and informed him that
the Alabama had escaped me at Fort Royal, Martinique. Sent Lieu-
tenant-Commander Chandler on shore at Pointe a Pirre to communi-
cate with our consul, then looked in off Plymouth, island of Montserrat.
Came to anchor in the harbor of Basse Terre, island of St. Christopher,
and communicated with our consul. Sighted the roadstead of St. Ens-
tatins. Sent Acting Master Coop on shore at the town of Gustavia,
island of St. Bartholomew, to communicate with our commercial agent.
	Spoke the ship France, of New York, off St. Martin, and informed him
of the Alabamas escaping me at Fort Royal, island of Martinique.
Came to anchor in the harbor of Philipsburg, island of St. Martin, and
communicated with our consul there; from thence to this place.
	The original report of the escape of the Alabama I forwarded to you
through the American consul, Emile S. Delisle, at Basse Terre, island
of St. Christopher, by the schooner Eclipse, under the Swedish flag,
to sail on the 25th instant direct for New York.
	I enclose a copy of a communication received from Acting Consul
John Campbell. I would observe I did not see this person during my
stay at Fort Royal. Previous to leaving I learned from ex-Consul Fair-
field that the Alabama had circles forward and aft for bow and stern
chasers of a large caliber. I shall proceed to coal ship as expedi-
tiously as possible, and be ready to leave as soon as the engines are in
order. Chief Engineer Kellogg states that he will require three and a
half days to complete the necessary repairs.
	The bark spoken of in my report of the 21st instant is the Agrinpina,
Captain MeGlinchy [McQueenll. There appears to be some doubt
about the captains name, but none as to the bark. This person was
recognized on board the Alabama as an old friend by all hands.
	I have this day forwarded to Admiral Wilkes, through our consul
here, a letter advising him of the Alabamas having becit in these
waters.
	I beg to urge on the Department the ne~~essity of having two vessels
to cruise together, acting in concert.
	I shall continue to cruise in search of the Alabama, and return here
at the expiration of fifteen or twenty days; and if not successful. and.
receive no other instructions from Admiral Lee or the Department, Iwill
return to Fortress Monroe, looking at other points on my way, and
communicating with our consul at havana. This seems to me to
comply with the instructions I received.
	The paymaster of this ship has great difficulty in negotiating for the
payment of the coal; indeed, he could not efThct a purchase on any
other terms than drawing on the Navy Department, payable in gold,
and then at a discount of 10 per cent.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. RONCKENDORFF,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 560

560	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Master Hays, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. ship National Guard, to proceed to Turtle Harbor,
Florida, with coal for the West India Squadron.

NAVY DEPARTMENT November 26, 1862.
	SIR: As SOOII as the U. S. ship National Guard is ready for sea, pro-
ceed with her with all practicable dispatch to Turtle Harbor, a few
miles north of Carysfort light, where she will remain as a coal depot
until farther orders. Immediately on arriving there, or by the first
opportunity ofti~ring, report by letter to Acting Rear-Admiral Charles
Wilkes, cornmanding the West India Squadron, and whose vessels the
coal sent to that point is designed principally to supply.
	When the present cargo of the National Guard is sufficiently dis-
charged, transfer to her the coal that may be remaining in aity char-
tered vessel at Turtle Harbor, thus avoiding the detention of vessels
having small quantities of coal on board.
	Be particular to fill up the naval vessels arriving for a supply, from
the colliers, so that parts of loads may not remain, or more than can
be immediately taken on board the National Guard which must be
kept full in this way.
	Advise the Bureau of Equipment, by every opportunity, of the
arrival of the colliers; also furnish the bureau with estimates of the
quantity of coal required for the steamers of the squadron, and a state-
ment of the quantity the Guard can contain in addition to that which
she may have on board.
	When a coal vessel arrives, endorse the date on her bill of lading,
and make a similar endorsement of the date of her (liseharge, stating
the quantity of coal delivered and the number of days, if any, for which
demurrage is to be allowed. Furnish a copy of this certificate to the
Bureau of Equipment.
Transmit a copy of these orders to Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Actin ~, Master WM. LEE HAYS, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. Ship National Guard, New York.



Report of Commander Clary, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tioga,
of cruise in the West Indies.

U.	S. GUNBOAT TIO~A,
Bahama Banks, November [28], 1862.
	SIR: Since assuming the command (9th instant) of this gunboat
have made the following cruises and visits: Until the 12th remaining
at Great Stirrup Cay, in company with the Octorara and Sonoma,
anticipating the arrival of the admiral. The Wachusett not appearing,
the several gunboats making short cruises of from three to four days,
the Tioga going down to Mackie Shoal, to the eastward of the Beininis,
lying there over night, then east across to Northwest Cut, off and
about Chnbb Point [Chub Cay] twenty-four hours, returning to Stirrup
Cays by the same route, passing and speaking two or three wreckers
and an American brig bound to Matauzas.
	The 15th, made a steamer; ran out to her. She proved to be the
British Queen

Page 561

O14~R.ATIONs OF ~UIIF C1tTJISl~RSVNIoN.
561
	The 16th, un ding we had only two days rations on board and our
boilers straining (the forward part near the manhole bulging out from
one-half to five-eighths inch), determined to run for Key West at
once to provision, coal, and repair, if possible, ascertaining en route
that the engineers could strengthen the breaking part of the boilers.
P. In. of the 16th overhauled an American steamer at anchor on the
Banks, in ballast, repairing boilers. She proved to be the propeller
Hero, of Philadelphia, bound to Minatitlan, Mexico; would touch in at
Havana for coal. Papers all regular; the owner and family on board
as passengers.
Arrived at Key West the 18th. Heard here Admiral Wilkes was at
Havana about the 9th. Coaled and got provisions aboard in twelve
hours. Left Key West at midnight (18th) for Orange Cay and the
Banks, up to Stirrup Cays. Passed the British packet Pacific, for
Havana, and a small sloop. Anchored at Stirrup Cays the 20th.
	Received information from the American consul at Nassau that
induced me to leave at once for the northeast, about Abaco, Egg Island,
down Eleuthera, to Ship Island Pass. Saw no sail cruising between
Cat Island and Ship Channel. The 25th, chased and boarded the Eng.
lish brigantine ~i1eorgina, light-house cruiser, with governor on board.
Heard that the ]Jliassachusetts and &#38; tntiago de Cuba were spoken by her
four days previous down in the tongne of the ocean. Steered across
Providence Banks and tongue of the ocean; made a schooner here
working up toward Northwest Cut. Soon as he discovered us he kept
away for Lowe Sound, Andros Island. We could not head him off till
he was too near the island. We steamed off northeast, apparently
with the intention of running around Berry Islands, but when well out
of sight of him ran in northwest fbr Chnbb [Chub Cay] Point; lay
there till 5 the next morning, then ran down W. S.W. to make the vicinity
of Lowe Sound again, thinking the schooner might have come out to
try Northwest Cut. No sail in sight; stood through Northwest Pass.
When well on the Banks spoke a wrecker from Beminis. They reported
that the schooner Clipper (blockade runner) was to have left the Banks
that morning. Her route was along the cays, thence across from Rid-
ing Rocks to Williams Cay, southeast to Andros Island, and around
south up to Nassau, as she was unfit to run across the Gulf Channel.
We steamed down to the direct route (from Riding Rocks to Williams
Cay), lay there during the afternoon and night; saw nothing. Novem-
ber 28, got underway for
in	with the admiral. Stirrup Cays, with the expectation of falling
In summing up this weeks cruises, can only infer we have been mis-
led froni the first; that neither wreckers, spongers, or fishermen, white
or black, can be depended upon; that I have doubt even of the pilots
until they have been benefited by captures.
	The American consul apprised us of the sailing of the Kate, although
she had been in Nassau ten or twelve days.
	I heard that three steamers had arrived in Nassau since the 21st,
the Herald, a 3-masted English steamer, and a rebel side-wheel; the
latter I suppose to be the Kate, from the description, possibly returned,
as it was rumored that our troops were about to attack Wilmington so
long ago as the 28th ultimo.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, A. G. CLARY,
	Admiral CUARLES WILKES,	Commander.
Commanding U. ~. Squadron.
123A3

Page 562

562	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from the U. S. consul at Nassau, New Providence, to Acting Rear-
Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, giv-
ing information regarding movements of blockade runners at that port.

U.	S. CONSULATE AT NASSAU, NEW PROVIDENCE,
November 29, 1862.
	Sin: I have the honor to inform you that there are at present in this
port the Anglo-Confederate steamer Leopard, lately arrived from
Charleston, S. C., with a cargo of cotton, and the Confederate steamer
Antonica, lately the Herald, with a like cargo, from the same port.
This cotton has been transshipped t6 the British propeller Bonita,
which sails soon for neutral England, and the Leopard and Antonica
are now taking on board arms and stores for the rebel States, though
the time of their departure is not known to me. I am under the
impression that their present plan is to hug the Eleuthera shore, stand-
ing oft to the eastward till they run their latitude up, and then to watch
a chance to make good their entrance.
	There are several small schooners and sloops engaged in running
small stores into the Sonthern ports, bringing back from 5 to 11 bales
of cotton, or a few barrels of turpentine.
	I am disposed to think that sail vessels are now trying the blockade-
rnnning business at Matamoras, Mexico, as several large sehooners
have cleared for that port lately and others are preparing to do so.
	A quantity of cases of rifles and muskets are this day being shipped
on board the Leopard, and I presume that this steamer will have quick
dispatch.
	I heard yesterday that the steamer Kate had been captured, which
report I hope is true. She has made forty-fonr successful trips to
Secessia, enriching her captain and owners.
I have the honor to be, sir, yours, truly,
SAML. WHITING,
U.	S. Consul.
Rear-Admiral WILKES, or any U. S. NAVAL COMMANDER.




Report of Commander Bryson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Chip-
pewa, of return to Algeciras, Spain.

U. S. GUNBOAT CHIPPEWA,
Algeciras, Spain, November 29, 1862.
	SiR: I have the honor to inform you that I returned to this place on
the 26th November. In my last communication I informed you that 1
should go to Cadiz. On my arrival at the latter place I receive(l orders
from Captain Pickering to proceed at once to the Western Islands and
communicate with the U. S. consul at Fayal, also Captain Craven ot
the Tuscarora. I left Cadiz on the 8th November and arrived at
Fayal on the 14th. I imparted the information conveyed in a telegram
from the U. S. minister at Lisbon to the U. S. consul at Gibraltar (of
which I enclosed you copies before I left Algeciras). After getting iii
coal amid other necessary stores, I left Fayal November 17. On the
night of November 23 it commenced blowing from the S. W. Iii the
course of three or four hours the wind veered gradually to the N. W.,
froni which quarter it blew very hard for two days and nights, raising
a tremendous cross sea. I hove the vessel to, under her fore and af

Page 563

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS-~UNION.
563

sails reefed, with just turns enough of the propeller to keep steerage
way on her. I found that she made considerable water, and have no
doubt but that she has been strained, though I think not seriously so.
I have received an official report from the senior engineer, in which he
states that it will be absolutely necessary to make certain repairs ou
the engines and boilers before the vessel can go to sea again, otherwise
there will be a risk of rendering them entirely unserviceable, to prevent
which I have directed him to go to work at once, putting all his avail-
able force on them, and to get through as soon as possible.
	Since my return to this place I have learned from the U. S. consul at
Gibraltar that a quantity of powder had been thrown overboard from
the Sumter, and that she had been advertised for sale in an English
paper. I enclose a copy of the orders* received from Captain Pickering.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
A.	BRYSON,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Report of Acting Lieutenant Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S.
S.	Vanderbilt, of return to New York from cruise in search of C. S.
S.	Alabama (290).
U. S. S. VANDERBILT,
New York, November 30, 1862.
	Sin: I have the honor to report the arrival here of this ship. In
obedience to your order of November 6 I sailed from New York on the
10th instant, and proceeded to the eastward, under low steam, as far
as longitude 550 10 W., latitude 430 5 N during this part of our
cruise, between the long nights and foggy days, but little could be
seen. I then ran to the westward, coming out of the stream near
Georges Shoal, and when nearly up with Nantucket stood for Ber.
muda.
	1 have to report that on the morning of the 15th we came in collision
with the English bark Symmetry, grain loaded, from New York, bound
to Belfast, carrying away his head booms and bowsprit; we assisted
in repairing his damages, and, as his vessel remained perfectly tight,
advised him to continue his voyage; however, the captain announced
his intention of returning to the United States (distant 300 ;uiles) to
refit.
	At the time of the collision, we were passing ahead of him, intend-
ing to board him, going, say, 7 knots, but had stopped the engine some
time before we came up with him, but still had good headway on.
Seeing the danger of his striking us with his head booms, I hailed hminzi
three times to luff;~ he, however, made no move to do so until so
close aboard of us it was too late. I consider the master of the bark
c~ompletely in fault for the accident; the damage to us was trifling.
	We arrived at Bermuda on the eve of the 21st, and sailed again next
morning, only commuimicating with the U. S. consul. The British
adi! ival (Milne) had arrived the day previous from Halifax in the
ATile, 91 [guns], having two other large ships in company. The con-
sul could give us no information of the 290; he thought, however, if
she should come there she would not be allowed to coal. He reports a

See u. 541

Page 564

564	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS~-UNION.

better state of feeling existing among the inhabitants toward the
United States; he also expressed himself clearly of the opinion that if
it should be necessary or convenient for this ship to stop for coal or
supplies at Bermuda, they would be furnished, my stop not being
considered a visit, as I only communicated with him.
	There were lying in the port three English steamers (one of them
with arms) intended to run the blockade, but owing to certain law pro-
ceedings, it was not considered likely either of them would get away
for some time.
	After leaving Bermuda we spoke, on the afternoon of the 24th
instant, the American bark Revolution, from Boston for New Orleans,
who reported having beeu chased the afternoon previous in latitude
370 30, longitude 700 15, by a bark-rigged screw steamer, burning soft
coal, who got withiu 2 miles of them, when she hauled off, it blowing
quite heavily at the time. The vessel showed no colors nor did she fire
at the RevoLution.
	On hearing this report we immediately started for the designated
neighborhood, under increased steam, but neither saw nor heard of any
such vessel during our research of the last four days.
	During our cruise we have steamed 3,570 miles. We now require
about 800 tons coal to fill up, when we shall be ready for such further
service as the Department may direct.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	II. BALDWIN,
Acting Lieutenant, U. S. Navy,
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. 0.


Boarding of the Gornubia and Thistle, November, 1862.

Report of Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, of the boaraing of
two suspicious vessels, the Cornubia and Thistle.

U.	S. S. TUSOARORA,
Madeira, December 1, 1862.
	SIR: Ihave the honor to advise you of two suspicious steamers recently
boarded by this vessel.
	The Gornubia, of London, boarded on the night of the [21st] Novem-
ber off Fayal, was in ballast; a side-wheel steamer of about 600 tons,
schooner rig, with short bowsprit; two smoke pipes, one standing for-
ward of the other; of light draft, and very low in the water.
	The Thistle, of Glasgow, was boarded off Funchal, November 29; is
from Liverpool with an assorted cargo for Nassau; no goods contraband
of war on board; is an iron-built screw steamer of 400 tons; schooner
rigged, with light foretopsail; no bowsprit; stem raking and without
billet head or scroll; has a wale, or fender, of oak, along the water
line; her stern elliptical; smoke pipe remarkably high; draft, 9 feet;
vessel said to be good for 15 knots.
	From the general character of the above vessels I have no doubt
they may attempt running the blockade.
1 have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T.	AuGs. CRAVEN,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy

Page 565

OP1~RATIONS OF THE CRUISEgSlJNIO~.
565

Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Tuscarora, to forward to the Department further information regarding the boarding of the
steamer Thistle.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, February 18, 1863.
	Sin: The Department has received a letter from the honorable Sec-
retary of State, enclosing a communication from the British minister
at Washington, complaining of the manner in which the merchant
steamer Thistle, of Glasgow, was visited by the vessel under your corn-
niand on the 29th of November last. It is stated that the Tuscarora
followed the Thistle out of the port of Madeira to a distance of betweeu 3
and 4 miles from the land, fired two guns at her, and after bringing her
to and searching her returned to the port she had just left.
	Your report of December does not mention these circumstances. If
they are correctly stated, you have, perhaps without being aware of
it, furnished ground for the complaint which has been made. It is nott
proper to make a convenience in any manner of neutral territory for
the purpose of exercising the belligerent right of search or capture. A
capture of a neutral vessel, made after standing off and on a neutral
harbor or mouth of a river, or lying in wait within it for the purpose,
although actually made beyond the ILeutral jurisdiction, would not be
recognized as valid, and the right of search can not properly be exercised
when it is known previously that, whatever the avent of the search,
the capture would not be lawful.
	You will make a further and more detailed report to the Department
of the facts in this case.
I am, respectfully,
GIDEON WELLES,
	Commander T. A. CRAVEN,
Commanding	U. S. Shijp Tuscarora, Secretary of the Navy.
Care of U. S. Consul, Gibraltar.



Further report of Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, of the
boarding of the Steamer Thistle, transmitting extract from newspaper on the subject.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP TUSCARORA,
At Sea, March 17, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communi-
cation of February 18, which reached me at Gibraltar last evening.
	The manner in which the Thistle was boarded appears to have been
stated to you with tolerable accuracy. I was not, however, lying in
wait, but arrived at Madeira the day before the Thistle sailed, and fol-
lowed that vessel to sea. I was not aware that by so doing II was vio-
lating any rule of international law, or I most certainly would not have
trespassed on neutral rights. The authorities of Funchal admitted that
the whole matter was pro forma. British naval officers of high rank
whom I subsequently met there told me I was performing my duty as
they always did it; and, as a matter of interest, I enclose you a news-
paper paragraph in reference to the matter, which seems to have been
written by a naval officer. You will therefore see, sir, that if I erred,
I have done so through falling into old practices rather than through
any disregard of neutral rights.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
	T. AuGS. CRAVEN,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander.
Secretary of the Navy

Page 566

566
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
[Enclosure.]

MARITIME RIGHTS AND IGNORANT WRITERS.

The following letter, signed iR. N., appears in the Times:
	SIR:	A]etter signedM. P. recently appeared in your paper, complaining of the
illegal proceedings and insult to the British flag recently committed by the U.
S. S. Tuscarora, off Madeira. Now, I hope the initials M. P. do not signify a mem-
ber of Parliament, for, although I have been a careful reader of the parliamentary
debates for years, I am still unprepared for such ignorance of international law as.
appears to be betrayed by M. P. Is he not aware that the Tuscarora had a perfect
right to stop the Thistle on her passage and search her for contraband of waraye,
even nuder the guns of a British vessel ~ There was certainly no insult to the
British flag. The boarding was in accordance with recognized custom, provided
that it took place 1 marine league from the shore; if withiu that limit, the inault
would be to the Portuguese and not to the British Government. It is impossible to
tread the account of this event and not to conclude that these swift steamers had
reached more than 3 miles from the Portuguese territory. M. P. complains of a
sort of blockade. Does he not know that in the French war the ports of the
United States had to undergo this sort of blockade for years ~ Does he not know
that blood was shed in its execution ~ It may not, perhaps, appear to be my duty
to justit~ the acts of American officers, but I am unwilling to see that angry feeling
against the Federals, which is already too bitter, increased by the extraordinary
teaching of M. P. (Sun.)





Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Craven, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, to remain on the Europectn coast for
the protection of commerce.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 1, 1862.
	SIR:	Until further orders you will remain on the European coast for
the protection of our commerce, communicating with our representa-
fives abroad, and keeping near such points as will enable you to obtain
the earliest information in relation to rebel vessels, when you will use
the utmost exertions to overtake and destroy them.
I am, respectfully, your obedieiit servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Commander T. A. CRAVEN,
Commanding U. S. Steam Sloop Tuscarora, Lisbon, Portugal.



Instructions from the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral
Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, enjoining strict
observance of established regulations in British ports and vigilance
in preventing blockade running.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 1, 1862.
	SIR:	It is very desirable that the vessels of your squadron should
not enter any of the British ports if they can avoid it, and when neces-
sary for them to enter they must conform to the established regula-
tions, however disagreeable they may be. Any treatment received of
which you may think proper to complain can be communicated to the
Department. They should not, however, cease to be vigilant in their
endeavors to capture the vessels engaged in carrying supplies an

Page 567

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	567

munitions of war to the insurgents, and bringing out cargoes of cotton,
etc., and which are running between Nassau and Charleston. It is
reported that several of them have been successful recently.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,

	Acting T~ear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES, Secretary of the Navy.
Commanding West India AS~quadron, Turtle Harbor.



Capture of the schooner Nonsuch, December 1, 1862.

Report of Commander Olary, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tioga

U. S. GUNBOAT TIOGA,
Bahama Banks, December 2, 1862.
	SIR: In obedience to your orders of the 29th ultiino, took the coal
schooner Sidney Price in tow and convoyed her down to Northwest Cut.
During coaling and repairing the boats captured the schooner Nonsuch
(showing English colors), after a chase of four hours, and then not heav-
ing to after being fired at, our boats crew overtaking her and boarding
over his stern. Her papers were irregular; no register, with discrep-
ancies between her manifest and clearance. Her cargo consisted of salt
and coftee, but on further examination found boxes of cartridge paper
(contraband). We found $11 rebel money on her cabin floor, and a
recently torn envelope addressed to some person in Doboy Sound,
Georgia; the captain of the schooner seeing this, destroyed it. She was
bound for Key West. The masters instructions were to sell the cargo at
Key West, as it was bringing a very high price there now, and to lay
out the proceeds in green turtle and that they must not exceed 150
pounds each, nor less than 40. Besides the captain, John Albury, were
two other white passengers, a Spaniard, who appeared to own the cargo,
and a G~rman, whom I have since ascertained was to go [as] pilot to
Indian River, Florida. The masters instructions were signed Messrs.
Adderly &#38; Co., notorious Southern agents. The schooner was of about
50 or 00 tons.
	Her crew were negroes from Nassau. Those I shall be compelled to
land at Stirrup Cays, as they have no clothing. Besides, it would
require more men than I could spare to send her in were they to remain
on l)Oard. I have retained the pilot. The master and owner (the
Spaniard) [I] have sent in the schooner in charge of two masters mates
to Key West, as I did not think it prudent to dispatch her north at
this season. I think the schooner has heavy, weighty cargo below the
salt.
	The boats chased another large, deep schooner, but the breeze
sprung np just as they were within a mile of her; she managed to beat
through the Northwest Cut and get clear. The Nonsuch was taken
when coming through.
	I regret to add that I was delayed twelve hours waiting for one of
the boats; she cruising over to the Beminis. While there the officer
of the boat saw a fine, large three masted bark-rigged steamer (no top-
gallant yards across), under steam and sail (propeller), standing up the
Gulf Streani, evidently going around the lsaacs; this was yesterday,
4 p. in., the 1st

Page 568

568	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNIG~.

	J learned pretty correctly that the Octorara was seen taking the
schooner Isabella a prize into Key West. I heard, too, that it was
rumored in iNassau that one of our gunboats, possibly the /Sonoma,
was blockading the rebel steamer Kate in at Little Harbor.
	I am now towing the wrecker schooner Olivia, Captain Dames, in
the direction of Northwest Cut. He is to go to Nassau to close the
terms proposed; if successful, to return to Stirrup (Jays and leave all
communications with MeKinny. I have written our consul and the
commanders to this purport.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
A. (I. CLARY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Admiral CHARLES WILKES,

Commanding U. S. West India Squadron.
	I have just now learned quite accidentally that one of these negroes
of the Nonsuchs crew, who acted ras] cook or steward, burned certain
rebel papers and [a] rebel flag while our boat was in chase of her. It
is to be regretted he was not sent in the prize, though possibly it
would hardly have been elicited from such a witness, or that negroes
would be admitted as witnesses at Key West.
A. G. CLARY,

Commandem



Further report of Commander Clary, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tioga, regarding ~he
capture of the Schooner Nonsuch.


U.	S. GUNBOAT TIOG-A,
At Sea, Lat. 260 15 N., Long. 760 50 W., February 16, 1863.
	SIR: I beg to call your attention to the capture and report of the
schooiiner Nonsuch, Albury, master, from Nassau bound to Key West,
December 1, 1862, on Bahama Banks, latitude about 250 30 N., longi-
tude 780 20 W. This schooner showed no colors during chase. Cargo,
coffee and salt. Her papers irregular and incomplete; no register.
She had a manifest, showing a certain quantity sacks of salt and cof-
fee, also an invoice of same, but with a discrepancy of 100 sacks. She
has boxes of cartridge paper (contraband) on board, an English flag
in the cabin, a rebel flag found in the galley partly burned, rebel money
on the cabin floor, and a torn envelope addressed to parties in Doboy
Sound, Georgia.
	The schooner Nonsuch was sent to Key West for adjudication in
charge of Acting Masters Mates Otis A. Thompson and Henry Wyman.
	I have written this second report to show on what grounds the
schooner Nonsuch was seized, as I learned at my last visit to Key West
that she was not condemned, that she had been released on giving bonds,
etc. I have further to add that the rebel flag found on board of her
was not produced in court.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
A. G. CLARY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 569

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	56~

Letter of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S.
Navy, commanding West India Squadron, regarding criticism by the
British minister of his conduct while in the port of Bermuda, West
Indies.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 2,1862.

	SIR: The English minister, Lord Lyons, has made certain statements
in regard to the proceedings that took place at Bermuda when you
visited that island in September last. The points presented in the note
of Lord Lyons to the Secretary of State are
	1. That Rear-Admiral Wilkes ordered the vessels under his command
to anchor in such a position as to control the movements of ships desir-
ing to enter or depart from the port of Bermuda, and maintained a
system of cruising in the neutral waters of Bermuda in excess of his
rights as belligerent, which are thus defined by Lord Stowell in the case
of the Anna (5 Rob., p. 385):

	Captors must understand that they are not to station themselves in the mouth
of a neutral river for the purPose of exercisiag the rights of war from that river,
much less in the very river itself.

	And again:

	The captors appear by their own description to have been standing off and on,
obtaining information from the Balize, overhauling the vessels in their course down
the river, and making the river as much subservient to the purposes of war as if it
had been a river of their own country. This is an inconvenience which the States
of America are called upon to resist, and which this court is bound, on every prin-
ciple, to discourage and correct.

	2. The second ground of complaint is, that Rear-Admiral Wilkes
offensively and unlawfully placed sentinels on British territory.
	3. The third ground is, that Rear-Admiral Wilkes contemptuously
evaded the orders of her Majesty in regard to the supplies of coal
which vessels of belligerent parties obtain in a British port. He also,
in a letter to the governor of Bermuda, referring to the governors
expression, I have to instruct you that the vessel (the Tioga) can not
be permitted to return within these waters, replied in these terms:
This I can not permit; my Government has alone the power of instruct-
ing me.
	This appears like a defiance of the proper authority of the governor,
who is bound to carry out the rule by which vessels, having coaled,
can not return again to the same port for three months. The Govern-
ment can not have intended that the governor was to be obstructed in
the performance of his duties, bat the words of Rear-Admiral Wilkes
seem to imply that he meant to attempt it.
	Your dispatches and the correspondence between yourself and Gov-
ernor Ord sufficiently vindicate you in most respects, but as regards the
second charge, that of placing sentinels on British territory, I am not
advised. As you make no mention of having done this, I have taken
it for granted that the charge is not well founded, but I shall be glad to
hear from you in regard to it.
	The Department does not construe your rebuke of the discourtesy of
Governor Ord into a defiance, and it was evident that nothing of the
kiiid was meant, and whatever is censurable in regard to the obnoxious
word ~ does not, in its opinion, fall upon you.
	It is desirable that you should cultivate a friendly feeling with other
powers, and while maintaining our own rights, to respect the rights of
others. Wemust be carefid not to be aggressive. If it is a duty to concil

Page 570

570	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

ate other powers at other times it is equally so at present. Regretting
that the British colonial authorities should sympathize with the insur-
gents, and that the proclamation of her Majesty is so little regarded by
some of her subjects who are engaged in systematic illicit trade against
ourauthority, and schemes to evade the blockade and aid the insurgents,
nevertheless I would have you, while keeping a vigilant watch to detect
and seize all vessels that are directly or indirectly waging war on this
Government, avoid, as far as you well can, entering British ports.
Whenever you may do so, however, it is important that you do not come
in conflict with the regulations and authorities.
	In the state of feeling that exists in some of the islands there may
be occasions when your patience and forbearance may be tried, but I
have confidence in your intelligence not to transgress the recognized
laws and regulations of other governments or of international law,
but I trust there will be no occasion for any to assert that while those
limits may not have been transcended in letter, they were in spirit.
When within the jurisdiction of the local authorities they are to be
respected.
	1 trust you may be successful in capturing some of the craft that are
endeavoring to traffic with or aid the insurgents, or any of the vessels
owned by them.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Oomm1c~nding West India Squadron, Turtle Harbor.





Letter from the U. S. consul at Nassau, New Providence, to Acting Rear.
Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, giv-
ing information regarding blockade runners.

U.	S. CONSULATE AT NASSAU, NEW PROVIDENCE,
December 2, 1862.
	SIR: The British or Confederate schooner Prince Alfred arrived
this morning from Wilmington, N. C., having run the blockade, and
bringing to this port a cargo of cotton and turpentine worth $100,-
000, so said. She reports the brig Fannie Lewis as captured and
the steamer Kate as run ashore and destroyed at New Inlet. A full-
rigged brig, the Good Luck, under iSpanish colors, is said to be ladeu
with contraband cargo, which she will endeavor to run in~ to some
Southern port. She has stump topgallant masts, hull black, with
white stripe around the bends, spars bright; Black, captain, arm old
offender, and lately captured and imprisoned and released from [Fort]
Lafayette.
	Reports are rife of a rebel victory in Kentucky. Numbers of refu-
gees arriving daily, mostly from Savannah.
WHITING, U. S. Gonsul.
	[Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES, U. S. Navy,
Commanding West India Squadron.

Page 571

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	571

Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
Endia Squadron, regarding the attitude of the British authorities at
Nassau, New Providence, and transmitting a proclamation of the
colonial secretary at that port.

U.	S. FLAG STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Matauzas, December 4, 1862.
	DEAR SIR: I wrote you last from Stirrup Cays and ei~elosed you
some information received from the 111. 5. consul at Nassau, but I have
since received from him another dispatch relative to the effect produced
on the occasion of my late visit off that port, when I declined having any
communication with the authorities, as they now say to offer me the
courtesies due to my flag and rank. I would not permit the boats sent
out to board me, one from the II. B. M. S. Barracouta and another from
the governor, whose intention I well knew was to order me [or] desire
tue to ask permission to anchor, which the pilot told inc he had orders
to say could not be done. I directed my executive officer to tell the
pilot I should anchor when and where I saw fit, and did not intend to
ask permission to do so from anybody. I then steamed off and left the
vicinity.
	A day or two after I was informed by the consul that the captain
(Malcolm) of the Barracouta had told him that he should fire into the
first American man-of-war that attempted to anchor. Two days after,
just as we were getting underway from Stirrup Cays, a vessel was seen
over the land which we recognized as the Barracouta. I immediately
sceamed out toward her, and she bore down for us. We went imine-
diately to quarters and prepared for action. She approached within
one-fourth of a mile. I stopped and laid by for the result. We could
distinguish the crew at quarters and quietly awaited his further action.
We laid thus side by side without hailing distance for twenty-five
minutes, closely regarding each other, when, whatever might have
been his intention, he steamed up, wore round, and stood off without
further coinmunicatioii, and I gave orders to put the steamers head in
chase of two vessels seen in the offing, which had been my object in
getting underwny. I have no idea what the captain of the Barra-
cout&#38; s intention was, but I prepared the Wachusett for any contingency,
and was ready to encounter any. I shall be overcautious to avoid
being the first to break the peace; you may be assured of this,but if any
one should take upon themselves to break it, or do insult to our flag,
they must take the consequence. The Barracouta is a much heavier
armed vessel than the Wachusett, but that is of little consequence.
You may depend upon it, we shall fight with a good will.
	I enclose you a copy of the proclamation signed by the colonial sec-
retary. The governor has been absent for a month, and was so then.
It is dated the day after I called off the port of Nassau. I call your
attention to the part abont pilots. These colored pilots have been of
great use to us and I shall retain their services until my officers become
familiar with the cruising grounds. The rebels use the white pilots,
with whom we have nothing to do. Many of them are employed in
making signals of the whereabouts of our vessels, but we often deceive
them.
	I have also employed a small wrecker schooner or fisherman, who
goes to Nassau and brings us information of the departure, or rather
intended departure, of blockaders and the routes they intend to take.
I have adopted other means of obtaining correct information, which is
not of sufficient consequence to name to you

Page 572

OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.
572

	Two siriall vessels, pilot boats, would add to the efficiency of the
squadron in intercepting the small fry passing over the bank, of which
we can not attend to from looking after the larger game. The outside
blockade is very difficult to maintain with the few vessels I have, and
it is the only one where we have much chance of taking the largei
class of vessels; it is a position which the rebel vessels arrive at before
sunset or after sunrise, some 60 to 70 miles oft these islands. I can
not too strongly press upon you the necessity of my having a larger
force. The slave trade is becoming very active and requires attention.
A cargo has been recently landed by an American vessel, as I am
informed by our consul-general at The Havannab, and it is the opinion
of all that the destination of 290 is within the scope of my command.
Our gunboats singly are not equal to her, and I shall be obliged to have
them cruise in pairs. In order not to abandon our cruising grounds
for a day, I have sent two of the coal vessels to the Stirrup Cays to
supply their wants. While writing of the force, I would like to have
the armament of this steamer increased. The AS~onoma changed her
armament at Washington, having four 24-pounder brass pieces, for
9-inch guns. If these or others could be sent me they would be wel-
come; slide carriages.
	The Wcichusett is armed now as the 290, and we resemble her so
much that our merchant vessels endeavor to escape from us. When
overtaken they abundantly rejoice at finding a protector instead ot an
enemy. I had no idea of the extent and numbers of our trade and
vessels passing through the New Providence channels. It requires
protection which I can illy afford with my force to give. Turtle Har-
bor proves a very convenient point for our coaling. I left the Gemsbok
there a few days since, and I am glad to perceive it is the intention of
the Department to have a hulk there with suitable cranes for the facil-
ity and speed of taking in coal, as it will save us munch time and labor.
The steamers plying to The Havannah are seen to pass close to, and a
few days since we boarded the Eagle and got files of papers.

HAvANA, December 5.
	I received a dispatch from the consul-general this morning relative
to business, and expressing a wish to see me, when I took the cars and
came over, and leave to-morrow morning. A vessel resembling 290
has been reported off the east end of theisland,butl am inclined to
believe it is one of the English gunboats cruising for slavers. I shall
lose no time in reaching that point.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servaimt,
CHARLES WILKES,
~Acting] Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary ~f the Navy, Washington.
[Enclosure.
BAHAMA ISLANDS:
	By his Excellency Charles John Bayley, esq., companion of the most
		honorable Order of the Bath, governor and coin-
	 [L. s.j	mander-in-chief in amid over the said islands, chan-
C.	J. BAYLEY.	cellor, vice-admiral, and ordinary of the same.

A PROCLAMATION.

	Whereas in and by the act of the Imperial Parliament, 59 Geo., 3, cap.
69, various provisions are made to prevent the enlisting or engagemen

Page 573

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	573

of natural-born subjects of the Crown of Great Britain to serve in for-
eign service, and the fitting out or equipping within the British domin-
ions of vessels for warlike purposes, without the leave of the Crown,
and various penalties are imposed on persons who violate the provi-
sions of such statute;
	And whereas her most gracious Majesty the Queen, by her royal
proclamation of the 13th of May, 1861, reciting that hostilities had
unhappily commenced between the Government of the United States
of America and certain States styling themselves the Confederate
States of America, did declare hei royal determination to maintain
strict and impartial neutrality in the contest between the said contend-
ing parties, and did strictly charge and command all her loving subjects
to observe such neutrality, and to abstain from violating the laws and
statutes of the realm in that behalf, or the law of nations in relation
thereto, as they would answer to the contrary at their peril;
	And whereas such hostilities still continue, and inducements may
be held out to the seamen of this colony to serve on board of the ves-
sels of war of the contending parties, especially in the capacity of
pilots;
	And whereas any such service would constitute an offense, under
the statute herebefore refei red to, and subject the offending parties to
the penal consequences set forth in the said statute:
	Now, in order that none of the inhabitants of this colony may
unwarily make themselves liable to the penalties imposed by the said
statute, I do issue this, my proclamation, warning all seamen or other
persons belonging to this colony from serving or agreeing to serve on
board of any vessel of war of either of the said contending parties,
in the capacity of pilot, or in any other capacity whatever, on pain of
being proceeded against and punished, as is in and by the said statute
directed and provided for.
	Given under my hand and the seal of the said Bahama Islands, at
Nassau, in the island of New Providence, the twenty-first day of
November, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
sixty-two, and in the twenty-sixth year of her Majestys reign.
	By his Excellencys command.
C.	11. NESBITT,
Colonial Secretary.
	God save the Queen!



Letter from the U. S. minister to Portugal to Commander Craven, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, stating the intention ~f the
Portuguese authorities to prevent further outrages in the Azores by C. S.
S.	Alabama (290).
[Private.]

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES,
Lisbon, December 5, 1862.
	SIR: It is proper for me to inform you that the recent destruction of
American ships at the Azores by a cruiser called the Alabama has
been the subject of a correspondence with this Government, and that
I am officially informed that orders have been sent to the civil and muil-
itary authorities of the islands to act with vigor, under the royal proc-
lamation and the obligations imposed upon a friendly power by the
international law, in preventing a repetition of the outrages.
	I would suggest to you, therefore, that it is very desirable to coop

Page 574

574	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

erate cordially with the Portuguese officials, and to gain by a proper
respect for the laws and customs of the kingdom that confidence and
support which public enemies of the United States have j ustly forfeited
by a flagrant violation of one and an open disregard of the other.
I am, sir, respectfully,
JAMES E. HARVEY.
	Commander T. A. CRAVEN,
U.	S. S. Tuscarora, Fayal.


Report of Commander Ronchendor ft, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
San Jacinto, of arrival at Guadeloupe, and forwarding information
regarding the C. S. S. Alabama (290).
U.	S. S. SAN JACINTO,
Pointe ~ Pitre, Island of Guadeloupe, December 6, 1862.
	SIR: I arrived here yesterday afteriioon, after cruising in the Ane-
gada Channel, then sighting Barbuda and looking in at Antigna, and
miming close along the western shore of (luadeloupe, arriving here as
before stated.
	Our consul at this place tells me he has information from a reliable
source that the Alabama chased an American schooner on the 25th of
November on the western side of the island of Dominique [l)ominicaj,
and she escaped her by putting into Charlotte Town for protection.
The consul also informs me of the Alabamas having taken in coal,
etc., from the bark at the Island De Ayes, longitude 63~ 37, latitude
150 41. Since the 25th of November she has not been heard from. I
shall continue to cruise, etc., as stated in my letter of the 26th Novem-
ber.
	The ships provisions will want replenishing, and if it is prudent I
will stop in at Key West for that purpose, and hope there or at Havana
to receive instructions from the Department; if not, at St. Thorn as.
	I beg to call your attention to the great difficulty that Paymaster
Burt of this ship has in negotiating bills on our Government; the enor-
mous discount to which he has to submit in disposing of them seems
to me to call for the attention of the Department. If letters of credit
could be fuirnished him (those on London could be best negotiated), it
would be a great saving and avoid embarrassment.
	1 am aware that my communication should have been sent through
Admiral Lee, to whose squadron the San Jacinto is attached, but the
circum stances seemed to demand a speedy and direct intelligence to
the Department.
	I would state that the alarm amongst the American vessels is very
great; all that I have succeeded in speaking have taken me for the
Alabama, and in one instaiice a fine bark named the Hamilton, of New
York, from whom I was some 4 miles distant, ran in and anchored on
a lee shore to avoid me, and the consul tells me that she was tound the
next morning in a perilous position. I have to make great allowance
for the exaggerated reports which reach me.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	WM. IIONCKENDORFF,
	Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, P. C.
P.	5.The schooner spoken of is named the Mary E. Morgan

Page 575

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	575

Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Nickels, U. S. Navy, commanding
U.	S. ship Onward, of arrival at Falmouth F
	the C. S. S. Alabama (290). , ugland, seeking news of
		15.	5. SHIP ONWARD,
Falmouth, England, Dccember 6, 1862.
	SIR:	Enclosed is a copy of orders from Commander T. A. Craven.
We arrived here during the last night in a heavy gale of wind, without a
pilot, but without accident, and, needing some few repairs, have obtained
l)elmission to remain here five days, during which time I shall be able
to obtain all the news, having telegraphed the American minister of
my arrival, and also to the American consuls at Liverpool and London,
requesting themthe two latterto send me the latest news in regard
to the Alabama and her consorts, the steamer Bahama and Agrippina
(bark).
	Trusting my l)roceedings in the matter will prove satisfactory to you,
I remain,
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	F. NICKELS,

Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commanding U. S. Ship Onward.
Secretary Navy, United States of America.
[Enclosure.]

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP TUSCARORA,
Fayal, Norembcr 25, 1862.
	SIR:	By letters from England, just received, 1 am informed that the
British bark Agrippina sailed about the 28th ultimo, with a supply of
coal for the pirate Alabama. It is supposed that the place of rendez-
vous is the Azores, but as sufficient time has elapsed for the bark to
have reached these islands I am mel
prob	to Madeira.	med to believe that she has more
	ably gone	You will immediately proceed to sea, go to
Terceira, and look into the l)OrtS of that island, and then cruise for two
days to the northward and eastward of that l)lace. You will then run
for the entrance of the British Channel, touching, if necessary, at Pal-
mouth, for information; from that place make the best of your way to
Madeira. Should you fall in with the bark Agrippina, or the steamer
Bahama, you are instructed to capture those vessels as tenders and con-
sorts of the pirate Alabama. From Madeira you will return to the
cruising ground of your original instructions. From this place I will
proceed direct to Madeira and return immediately to these islands,
and by the route described for you; we shall have thus completely
traversed the supposed track of the consorts of the Alabama. From
Falmouth you will send a copy of this order to the honorable Secre-
tary of the Navy.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T.	AUGS. CRAVEN,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant J. F. NICKELS,	Commander.
Commanding U. S. Ship Onward.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Lieutenant Baldwin, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. S. Vanderbilt, to cruise in search of the C. S.
S. Alabama (290).
NAVY DEPARTMMENT, December G, 1862.

	SIR:	As soon as the Vanderbilt is ready proceed with her to sea and
resume the search for the pirate Alabama. Before returning to por

Page 576

576	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

again you will touch at Fayal and land Captain J. A. Winslow, Lieu-
tenant-Commander J. S. Thornton, and Lieutenant John Weidman,
who take passage in the Vanderbilt. On yonr passage over cover the
track of our merchantinen bound to and from Europe.
I am, respectfully, yours, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Acting Lieutenant C. II. BALDWIN, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Vanderbilt, New York.


Report of Captain Pickering, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge~
of the advertisement of sale of C. S. S. Sumter, at Gibraltar.

U.	S STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
La Carraca, Cadiz, December 6, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform the Department that the Sumter is
advertised for sale at Gibraltar on the 11th of this month, and to
enclose a copy of an official reply to the communication of the consul
upon this subject.
I am, with much respect, your obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERING,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.

[Enclo8ure.]

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
La Carraca, Cadiz, December 6, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your telegram,
without date, informing me that the Sumter is advertised for sale at
Gibrhltar on Thursday iiext. The vessel is of little value, and probably
offered for sale merely to establish a precedent.
	The sale of so-called Confederate vessels in British ports is an act as
unfriendly and hostile to our Government as the purchase of war vessels
in their ports by the same party. I would therefore suggest that it is
your duty to enter a protest against the sale.
I am, very respectfully, etc., your obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERING,
Captain.
HORATIO J. SPRAGUE, Esq.,
U. S. Consul, Gibraltar.



Letter from the secretary ~f the New York Chamber of Commerce to the
Secretary of the Navy, transmitting a resolution relative to the prctection
of American commerce on the coast of South America.

CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK,

New York, December 6, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of a resolution
passed at a meeting of the Chamber of Commerce on the 4th instant

Page 577

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	577

in relation to dispatching a naval force to the coast of South America
to protect American commerce from depredations of rebel privateers.
With great respect, your obedient servant,
A.	C. RICHARDS,
Secretary.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Eneloanre.]

	Resolved, That the chamber recommend and request the Secretary of
the Navy to dispatch one or more armed steamers to cruise about the
equator and on the coast of Brazil, for the protection of American com-
merce at the points where our ships bound to and from India, China,
South America, and California are most exposed.
	A true copy from the minutes.
A.	C. RICHARDS,
Secretary.


[Telegram.]


PHILADELPHIA, December 6, 1862.
(Received Washington, D. C., 11:40 a. in.)
	Boston bark Harriet Spaulding, Peabody, York, for llavre, was cap-
tured and burned November 19, iu latitude 41~ 13 N., longitude 66~
16 W., by pirate Alabama. Crew kept [in] irons several days, finally
transferred [to] brig Hiram from Pictou, landed at Fall River, where
three other crews on board Alabama.
FULTON.
	Captain Fox,
Navy Department.



Capture of packet steamer Ariel by the 0. 5. 5. Alabama (290), Decem
ber 7, 1862.

Report of Commander Sartori, U. S. Navy, passenger on board packet steamer Arid, en route
for Pacific Squadron.

PACKET STEAMER ARIEL,
Off Sandy Hook, December 27, 1862.
	SIR: It becomes my painful official duty to inform the Department
of the capture of this steamer, on board of which I was a passenger
under your order to report to Rear-Admiral Charles H. Bell for a com-
mand in the Pacific Squadron. She was taken possession of by the
steamer Alabama off Cape Maysi, Cuba, on the afternoon of the 7th
instant, on her outward passage from New York to Aspiuwall, under
the following circumstances:
	It appears that as the Arid rounded Cape Maysi a sail was observed
close under the land flying the United States hag; that little attention
was paid to her until she appeared to be heading toward this vessel,
when Captain Jones, commanding the Arid, made all speed. I, how-
ever, knew nothing of this until about 1:45 p.m., when one of the officers
123A-.---.3

Page 578

578	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

of the Ariel came into the cabin, where we were dining, and reported that
the Alabama was close upon us. I immediately jumped to the deck and
beheld a steamer not over 500 yards distant, rebel flag flying, and,
having just fired a lee gun, Major Garland, commanding the detach-
ment of marines (passengers on board bound to California), had them
immediately formed in the waist and gangway. I at once saw that
nothing could be done. She was npon the Ariel with a heavy broad-
side, fully presented, and almost immediately two heavy broadside
guns were fired, and a 68-pound shell struck the foremast just over
the pilot house, cutting the mast more than half off. Captain Jones,
seeing the utter impossibility of defending the vessel or injuring the
enemy in any manner, with my advice and the advice of Major Gar-
land and the voice of all the passengers, surrendered his ship.
	The Alabama was then not over 300 yards on the quarter and was
training her guns for a full broadside, which if fired must have done
terrific slaughter among over 700 passengers, nearly half of whom
were women and children. Immediate possession was takemi of the
Ariel and several officers and a number of armed men were left on
board. Captain Jones was taken to the Alabama with all the ships
papers. He soon returned and reported that the officers and marines
would be paroled, that every one would be landed, probably on San
Domingo, and the vessel and cargo would be destroyed. Captain
Semmes would not accept bonds offered him by Captain Jones. He
demanded and took from the Ariel all moneys belonging to the ves-
sel and on the freight list and all the arms and amniunition. Parole
was tendered to the officers and marines, for the obvious reason that
he had no other means of disposing of them, and feeling that the coin-
fort, safety, if not the lives, of the multitude on board depended in a
great measure omi our acceptance, and also our hope of future usefulness
in this rebellion, we accepted the terms offered and gave up our swords.
The A rid was detained until about 10:30 p. m. on the 9th instant (fifty-
six hours). Captain Semnines had, on the night of the 8th, sent word that
he intended to land all the passengers at Kingston, Jamaica, and we
had been steaming toward that point closely convoyed by the Alabama.
When off Morant light-house the vessels were hove to for daylight, but
about 10 oclock a passing sail was boarded by a boat from the Ala-
bama, from which material information must have been received by
Captain Semmes, for he soon sent for Captain Jones, demanded and
received heavy bonds, t~ok from the Ariel his officers and men, and
left her free to proceed to Aspi uwall. This was at 11 p. m. of the 9th;
the Alabama left us under sail, standing to the northward. By my
advice Captain Jones kept the Ariel hove to until daylight, when he sent
a letter addressed to the owner of th? Ariel to be forwarded, and I
addressed a communication to our consul at Kingston, a copy of which
I herewith enclose. These letters were addressed to the care of the
mayor of Morant, requesting him to have them delivered without
delay. I trust the consul has found some means to have a vessel of
war off Cape Maysi, or I fear that the steamer which left New York on
the 11th instant has been captured. We reached Aspinwall the night
of the 12th instant, and on the 13th I reported to Admiral Bell and
received from him an order, a copy of which I enclose.
	The Ariel left Aspinwall on the morning of the 16th, and by the
advice of many, including the Hon. 1). K. Cartter, our minister at
Bolivia, and our consuls at Panama and Aspinwall, the treasure was
not taken on board. We pursued a course along the coasts of Nica-
ragua and Honduras, and giving Cape ~SanI Antonio a wide berth

Page 579

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	579

anchored for a few horirs at Key West on the eve of the 22d, when I
gave Rear-Admiral Bailey all necessary information, and. explaiiied
the necessity of dispatching a vessel of war to Aspinwall to convoy
the next steamer from there, otherwise the accamniated treasure wonid
not be shipped. I shall proceed at once to Washington and report iu
person at the Department to enable you to have every l)artidular of
this lawless piracy. I wonid remark the Arid was steaming her best,
abont 9~ knots, the Alabama about 13. She is a~med as follows: One
100-pounder rifle (Blakely), one 68-shell gun, six medium 32s, and has cir-
cles laid forward and aft for two 100-pounder rifles, which it is reported
are on board and to be soon mounted. She has a crew of abont 140 men,
all of whom I judge are foreigners, mostly Englishmen; is 1,100 tons
burden and 1,200 horse power, with 4 boilers a
feet water; tri ces np her propeller, and ud draws from 14 to 15
can, from all accounts, make
14 knots under canvas, and such a vessel has been built, armed,
manned, and fitted out by England to prey npon the commerce of a
friendly power. She has not entered and can not enter au American
port, and is snstained alone by the aid and sympathy of a power that,
while professing friendship, is thus aiding and willing to see our great
and noble conntry dismembered. I also learned that she had lately
coaled from a brig near one of the Windward Islands. I most earnestly
reqnest of the Department to have me exchanged as early as possible
and grant me a command on the Atlantic coast that I may have some
prospect of relief from this bitter humiliation.
	I have the honor to remain, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
L.	C. SARTORI,
Gommander.
ion. G. WELLES,
Secretary of Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commander Sartori, U. S. Navy, passenger on board packet steamer Ariel, of
the capture of that vessel by C. S. S. Alabama (290).

STEAMER ARIEL,
Off ]liliorant Point, Jamaica, December 9, 186211 p. m.
	SIu: On the afternoon of the 7th instant, when off Cape Maysi,
Cuba, we were captured by the rebel steamer Alabama, and retained
until this moment, when we were allowed to proceed on our passage to
Aspinwall. They took out of the ship what money we had 011 the
freight list, amounting to about $15,000, and all the arms, respecting
the cargo and private property of the passengers. They intended at
first to land the passengers on the island of San Domingo, and destroy
the vessel and cargo. This intention was changed to Kingston,
Jamaica, and while off Morant Point this evening a vessel was boarded
by the Alabama, from which it is stated that news was received of
the yellow fever raging at Kingston, whereupon Captain Semmes
released this vessel under heavy bonds, rather than endanger the
lives of so many persons.
	His whole course while in possession of this vessel was most con-
siderate to all the passengers on board, amounting to over 700 persons.
I write this that you may send information of his whereabouts to
Washington, as also to any of our vessels of war that may be about
these islands, lie will undoubtedly attempt to seize the steamer of
the 11th from New York, as also this vessel on her returi~ from Aspia

Page 580

580	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.


wall, if not convoyed, and it will require a vessel of considerable force
and speed to capture him. He has two heavy rifles ai~d six 32-
pounders, and a crew we believe of 140 men.
Lu haste, I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
L. C. SARTORI,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
The AMERICAN CONSUL AT KINGSTON, JAMAICA.

P.	5.We proceed at once to Aspinwall.

[Enclosure.]


U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Panama, D~~ember 13, 1862.
	SIR: In consequence of your having been captured on your way out
from the United States to join this squadron, and made a prisoner of
war, your services can not be available until exchanged. You will
therefore proceed by the earliest conveyance to New York, and on your
arrival report by letter to the honorable Secretary of the Navy. You
will be pleased to send him a copy of this letter.
Yery respectfully, yours,
CHARLES II. BELL,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
	Commander L. C. SARTORI, U. S. Navy.




Letter from the U. S. minister to Portugal to fJommander Craven, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, advising the presence of that
vessel in the Azores.
LISBON, December 7, 1862.
	Mv DEAR SIR: I have just received your note of the 23d November
from Fayal. The information in regard to the Bahama, which was
conveyed to you by the Chijppewa, was received from London in a tele-
gram addressed to you by Mr. Moran, under cover to me. I telegraphed
it immediately to Captain Pickering, with a request that it should be for-
warded to you by the Kearsarge or Chipjpewa. The latter started a day
afterwards for the Azores; hence it was physically impossible to com-
municate by letter, and my principal object was to secure your pres-
ence at the islands, in view of the information from Loiidon, and to
save you a needless voyage to the Atlantic coast. I have no additional
news on this subject. The Alabama was last seen, or suppose~1 to be
seen, near Nantucket, on our coast.
	It is very clear to my mind that steamers from England, intended to
run the blockade, will hereafter, as heretofore, endeavor to procure
coal and supplies, and perhaps arms, at the Azores.
	Coal is now transported there in ordinary trading vessels in small
quantities; consequently vigilance is necessary, but we must exercise
prudence, in view of the recent action of this Government, which I
have already advised you of officially.
	I am glad to hear that the Onward has reached the islands. Be
pleased to inform her commander of the substance of my official note
to you of the 5th instant for his guidance.
	There is no very important intelligence from home. Burnside is
advancing tuward Richmond via Aquia Creek

Page 581

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	581

	The consul at Gibraltar requested me to say to you that he had not
been able to procure some flannel which you had ordered. The Sumter
is advertised for sale. The St. Louis is now here.
Yours, truly,
JAMES E. HARVEY.
	Commander CRAVEN.



Report of Captain Price U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Jamestown,
of arrival at Rio de Janeiro.

U. S. S. JAMESTOWN,
Rio de Janeiro, December 8, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform the Department of my arrival at this
place on the 30th ultimo, after a rather tedious passage of forty-eight
days. On my way out I saw but few vessels; of those, I boarded an
American on this side of the line and have made inquiries of some half
dozen others that have arrived here during the past week or ten days
from the United States, but from none of them have I heard of any
interruption from rebel cruisers. Freights, they think, will be still
more difficult to obtain, since the Alabamas captures have been known
here. There being no Government stores here, I have thought it advis-
able to have purchased 10 barrels of flour and 15 of pork, which, in
addition to what we had on hand, may take us to Macao.
	I shall sail for Montevideo the last of this week with our minister,
General Webb, and Mrs. Webb as passengers, the latter for the benefit
of her health.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CICERO PRICE,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Letter from the U. S. consul at Nassau, New Providence, to Acting
Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squad-
ron, stating his decision to issue no more licenses to merchant vessels.

U.	S. CONSULATE AT NASSAU, NEW PROVIDENCE,
December 10, 1862.
	SIR: I hasten to lay before you some facts which have just conic to
my knowledge. In July last I received from the l)epartment of State
orders to issue licenses like the enclosed form, to such vessels as corn-
plied with the proper requisitions.
	I have recently issued five such licenses to the following- named
vessels: (1) British schooner lilarkaway, (2) British schooner Levi
Rowe, (3) British schooner Golden Eagle, (4) British schoner Brilliant,
(5) bark Rosalind. These vessels all took licenses for Beaufort, N. C.,
and the captains of each, together with the owners of the several car-
goes, have duly taken the most solemn oath that their sole cargoes
were salt, and that their destination was Beaufort, N. C.; that no per-
sons, articles, or information contraband of war should be forwarded
by them, etc.
	I have learned this morning that two of the aforenamed vessel

Page 582

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
582

have violated the oaths, and have entered Wilmington, N. C. Yester-
day a Mr. Thompson, having chartered the British barkentine Rosa-
lind, came to me to procure a license for Beaufort. The captain, Cecil
Gardner, having exhibited to me his shipmasters certificate from the
British admiralty, and both himself and Mr. Thompson having taken
the solemn requisite oaths as to cargo and destination, viz, salt, to
Beanfort, N. C., I granted them the desired license. This morning I
learn from a man in my confidence that the Rosalind will endeavor to
elude our blockade at Charleston or Wilmington New Inlet. If this
is tine it might be well to send the Rosalind to Key West to have her
cal-go overhauled, even at the risk of our Government having to pay
something for detention and damages.
	I have decided now to issue no more licenses on any consideration
whatever. I did not think that respectable men would presume to
stand up and on the Holy Evangelists take a solemn oath which they
intended to violate.
	Mr. Thompson, who has chartered the Rosalind, assured me that he
had taken a contract to supply lumber and fine timber from Beaufort
to complete a large church which has been erected here, but which has
remained unfinished for the past year, owing to want of timber.
With hearty wishes for the full success of the West India Squadron,
I am, truly, etc.,
SAML. WHITING,
U.	S. Consul.
	Rear-Admiral WILKES, or any COMMANDER OF U. S. CRUISERS.

DECEMBER 11, 1862.
	A report is published in this mornings papers that the 290, pirate
Alabama, passed the Beminis last week, and that Semmes told those
who boarded his vessel that he was in search of Admiral Wilkes and
the Wachusett. I wish him all success in the search.
	You will see by the newspapers enclosed that Admiral Mime, R. N.,
is expected here daily with reenforcements for the British West India
Squadron.
WHITING.

DECEMBER 13, 1862.
	Admiral Milne has just arrived. The Herald, alias Antonica, sailed
for Charleston. Schooners Rivet, Florida, Rising Dawn, and other
small craft are ready for sea, to run the blockade, probably.
WHITING,
U.	S. Consul.

	Steamer Leopard sails to-morrow with new captain, Black.



Report of Commander Ronekendorif, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Sa~ Jacinto, transmitting report of Commander Chandler, U. S. Navy,
denying rumored attack on schooner Mary E. Morgan by C. S. S. Ala-
bama (290).
U.	S. STEAM SLOOP SAN JACINTO,
Off the Island of Barbados, December 10, 18G2.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that on yesterday morning I called
in at Bosean, Island of Dominique LDominica}, and sent Lieutenant

Page 583

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	583

Commander Chandler on shore to make enquiry concerning the schooner
Mary B. Morgan, whom I reported in my letter of the 6th instant from
Pointe ~i. Pitre as having been chased and fired into by the Alabama,
or 290. I herewith enclose a copy of the statement made by that
officer. From it I must conclude that the Alabama has not becii in
that quarter, nor have I yet learned of her having been seen around
any of the Windward Islands since the 19th of November.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. RONCKENDORFF,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
AS~ecretary of the Nary, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosure.]


U.	S. STEAM SLOOP SAN JACINTO,
Rosean, Island of Dominica, December 9, 1862.
	SIR: In obedience to your order I went ou shore to gain information
of the rebel steamer Alabama, bat iu the absence of a consul, comumer-
cial agent, or other representative of the Government, I was obliged
to rely upon the consignee of the schooner Mary E. Morgan (which was
said to have been fired at) and other inhabitants of the island, whose
reports to me seem vague and unreliable.
	The consignee of the Mary B. Morgan informs me that two weeks
ago, as that vessel was coining round the north point of the island, a
steamer passed her and fired a gun, but that it was too dark for himuto
distinguish what class of vessel she was, it being 8 oclock at night. I
asked if there was a shot fired, but the captain said he did not know.
	The sergeant who had the guard at the fort told me that the steamer
alluded to was a side-wheel steamer, as he and his comrades distinctly
heard the noise of the paddle wheels, and that the 8 oclock gun which
is regularly fired must have been the one that the captain of the Mary
E. Morgan heard and in his fright attributed to the steamer.
	Several gentlemen remarked to me that they did not believe the
Alabama had been near the island, and I am of the same opinion.
Yery respectfully,
B.	CHANDLER,
Lieutenant- Commander, U S. Navy.
	Commander WM. RONCKENDORFF, U. S. Navy.




Letter from the Secretary of the Nary to Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes,
U.	S. Nary, commanding West India Squadron, stating the where-
abouts of the C. S. S. Alabama (290), and urging vigilance.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 12,1862.
	Sin:	The Department calls your attention to the fact, of which,
however, you are probably aware, that the Alabama, or 290, is in the
West Indies, having visited Martinique and escaped from there on the
night of the 19th ultimo, while the San Jacinto was lying outside.
The indications are that Semmes designs resorting to his old haunts
where, with the ASYmter, he destroyed our commerce and successfully
eluded our cruisers

Page 584

584	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	The l)epartmeut relies upon you to adopt every measure in your
power to overtake and capture or destroy this piratical steamer with-
out violating neutral territory or international rights.
I am, respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CITAS. WILKES,
Commanding West india Squadron, Turtle Harbor.




Revort of Captain Pickering, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge,
of the condition of that vessel.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
La Carraca, Spain, December 13, 1862.
	SIR: I had the honor to address the Department on the 7th ultimo
in relation to steps taken for docking ships, etc. I have now to state
that the ship was docked on the 1st instant, the dock having been in
use until that time. 1 should sooner have informed the Department
of this delay but that I was in daily promise and expectatiou of the
dock being vacated.
	I herewith respectfully enclose the chief engineers report, for which
I have been impatiently waiting, but which could not possibly be sooner
made owing to many and extreme difficulties met with in extracting the
shaft, which was accomplished this p. in. When the dock was emptied
and the ships keel exposed, one blade of the propeller was discovered
resting upon it. In connection with this fact 1 would respectfully br~ug
to notice of the 1)epartment that Spanish screw steamers at this place
have two stern bearings, one through the stern post and the other iu
the ru(IdCr post, with propeller revolving between them.
	As-my present position is an expensive one, I shall, so soon as prac-
ticable, plug the stern bearing and haul into the streaum until the shaft
is ready for shipping.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERING,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.




Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific
Squadron, to Commander Stanly, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Narragansett, urging vigilance in protecting United St tes mail steamers.

IT. S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Panama, December 13, 1862.
	SIR: When you are in all respects ready, you will proceed with the
U. S. S. Narragansett, under your command, on a cruise up the coasts
of Costa Rica, Nicaragua, [San] Salvador, Guatemala, and Mexico a

Page 585

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	585

far north as the port of Angeles, which is in about longitude 970 W.
You will visit the ports of Punta Arenas, San Juan del Sur, iRealejo,
La Union, Acajutla, San Jose de Guatemala, Port rLa] Ventosa, and
Port Guatulco.
	There is a line of American steamers carrying the United States
mail from Panama to most of the above-named places, as far north as
San Jose de Guatemala, and it is important to touch at those ports
about the time of the arrival of these steamers. This will not only
give them protection, but will give an opportunity to receive and dis-
patch all letters to or from your ship. In running along this coast it is
necessary that great attention should be observed to the navigation of
your ship, as the latest charts are reported very defective. You will,
whenever opportunity occurs, either by your own observations or from
information obtained from reliable sources, correct such errors, report-
ing it at the termination of your cruise.
	It is reported that a number of persons, citizens of the United States,
who have deserted their flag and become traitors to their country, are
scattered along this coast, incitiiig those who have capital to fit out
vessels against our commerce, and for this purpose to seize one of the
mail steamers, should an opportunity offer. You will therefore be par-
ticu]ar in examining every vessel you may encounter on which there is
the slightest suspicion of their character.
	I am also informed that there is some probability of political disturb-
ances very shortly in [San] Salvador; that, in a movement of that kind,
they expect to be aided by the Government of Nicaragua and Guate-
mala, and that the first step taken will be the seizure of the port of La
Union. Orders have been given by the agent of the Panama mail
steamships to preserve strict neutrality in their dealings with the con-
tending parties; to carry neither troops nor munitions of war or, in fact,
to commit no act which could compromise them in any manner what-
ever. It will be your duty when you meet with these steamers to urge
upon their respective commanders the necessity of adhering strictly to
these injunctions.
	In your intercourse with the officials, as well as private citizens of
foreign I)owers, I need not urge upon you the necessity of cultivating
the most friendly relations, conceding to them all that we should require
for ourselves and exacting, but in the most courteous manner, all that
is absolutely necessary to fulfill your instructions within the bounds of
international law.
	If absolutely necessary to obtain coal you may extend your limits to
Acapulco, but it is probable that you can get it in small quantities at
Acajutla and IRealejo. In paying for it you can draw bills on Pay-
master Dunn, of the U. S. ship St. Marys, at Panama.
	You will return to Panama between the 1st and 15th of March, 1863,
where instructions will await you. You will be pleased to render me
an account of your movements at least once in twenty days, directing
your letters to the care of the U. S. consul at Panama. William Nel-
son, esq., agent of the Panama mail steamers, has informed me that
anything required for your ship will be transported free of charge.
	In the hope of your having a pleasant cruise and a safe return to this
anchorage,
I am, very respectfully, yours,
CHARLES H. BELL,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Commander FArnus STANLY, U. S. Navy,
	Commanding U. S. S. Narragansett, Panama

Page 586

586	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Captain Pickering, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Near-
sarge, of failure on the part of the commanding officer of U. S. store-
ship Release to comply with orders.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
La Carraca, Spain, December 13, 1862.
	SIR: I feel it a duty, in times like the present, to acquaint the
Department with certain facts relative to the movements of the U. S.
storeship Release. Her commander was ordered on the 30th of Sep-
tember to proceed to Gibraltar and watch the Sumter. On the arrival
of the Kearsarge at Gibraltar from the Western Islands the Relcuse
was not in port but was reported to have sailed for Malaga. I requested
the consul at Gibraltar to telegraph to Captain Upton to return to his
station, and received for reply that he would return immediately. I
am informed by one of the officers of the Release that the ship was
l)ainted after the reception of this telegrani and remained in port more
than a week.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERING,
Captamn.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of continued search for the C. S. S. Alabama (290),
and urging the need of increased force for that purpose.

U.	S. FLAG STEAMER WACHUSETT,
[Havana, Cuba,] December 14, 1862.
	DEAR SIR: I arrived here yesterday morning, and during the day
our consul-general received information that the Alabama had been at
Fort Royal, Martinique, on the 20th [19th] November. I leave this
p. m. in search of her. We have been coaling all night.
	I can not express to you how much I feel the want of force here at
this time; it would have made her capture almost certain. I have by
every opportunity urged upon the Department the necessity of a larger
number of vessels, at least to have sent the two, the Dacotah and
(Jimarron, out which were started as part of my squadron, or to have
replaced them by others, but I have seen with some concern that no
notice has been taken of my urgency, and the time has now come
which proves that I was not mistaken in my views or representations
to you, that the Alabama, or 290, would come to recruit in these seas
and will probably remain in these waters for the next season, and we
require all the activity to hunt her up and capture her. But you must
be aware this can not be done without a sufficient force, and all acting
in unison and concert.
	I now possess all the information respecting her through the dis-
patch from the consul at Martinique to the Secretary of State, which
I requested the consul-general to open, it being inferred in the consuls
letter inclosing it that its contents were important. I see by it that
the Agrippina met the Alabama oft that port. Her first destination
was the Bahamas, but understanding that we had sufficient force there
to intercept her, and were keeping a careful watch on all the reefs and
cays, it has been changed to Martinique, and from thence we have
only surmises of the destination she may take, and these are of som

Page 587

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
587

account, for I have memorandums of Semnmes (which he wrote while
in the sumter) officially giving his rendezvous for that vessel, and
think he will now adopt them in his present emergency.
	I now renew the request for more vessels of sufficient force to con-
tend with her singly and others which may come, and with renewed
urgency to join me as soon as possible. I shall leave orders with the
consul-general, in view of their coming, wW t destination they are
intended to operate, or where I may meet them, There is no doubt in
my mind that after the 290 effects her coaling and repairs, her object
will be the capture, if possible, of the California boats. We must
take her before, if possible. We shall do our best. I leave with the
Sonoma this evening in close pursuit of her.
I am, very respectfully, yours,
CHARLES WILKES,
Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
	Secretary of the Navy, Washington.	-


Report ~f Acting Lieutenant Cavendy, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. bark
Gemsbok, of assistance rendered to transport .qteamer ilL Sandford

U.	S. BARK GEMSBOK
Turtle Harbor, East Florida, December 15, 1862.
	SIR:	On the morning of the 10th instant observed a steamer had run
upon Carysfort Reef near the light house, which proved to be the ill.
Sandford, one of the fleet of Major-General Banks expedition, having
on board the One hundred and fifty-sixth Regiment New York Vol-
nnteers, E. Cooke, colonel, commanding. She ran up her ensign, union
down, soon after striking. I immediately dispatched the launch with
anchor and hawser to assist her. She being imot able to get off, I
got the ship underway and ran down for her, to save life and property.
Anchored as near as safe to the steamer and succeeded in transport-
ing the most of her troops, to the number of 500 officers and men, with
arms and baggage, on board the ship. This ship being full, the balance
of about 200 were put on board steamer Blackstone, which came up on
the evenii)g of the 10th from Key West. On the 11th at noon weighed
anchor and proceeded to Key West, the Blackstonein company. On the
12th disembarked troops, took in water, and sailed 13th for this har-
bor and reached here this morning at 8 oclock.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
Enw. CAVENDY,
Acting Lieutenant, Commanding.
Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,

Gommanding Plying Squadron.


Instructions from the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral
Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West india Squadron, that the capture
/. the C. S. S. Alabama (290) must be the first consideration of his com-
mand.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 15, 1862.
	SIR:	Your No. 15 and No. 16, of November 24 and 25, respectively,
have been received. The Department would be glad to increase ou

Page 588

588	OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSUNION.

force at every 1)Oillt had it the men and ships. As it is we must make
the most of the force we have. The efficiency of the blockade must
not be impaired, and at this season the squadrons are expected and
required to carry on offensive operations. These matters can not be
dispensed with.
	Your operations are designed more particularly to capture the piratical
cruisers and vessels carrying contraband, and are, therefore, secondary
to the great object of the blockade. It is desirable to intercept and
break up the illicit traffic and schemes to aid the insurgents, but the
first great and imperative duty of your command is the capture and
destruction of the Alabama, or 290, the Oreto, Oi~ Florida, and similar
cruisers of a semi-piratical character that are depredating upon our
commerce. You have already been advised that the Alabama is in
your vicinity, and you could perform no (luty more acceptable to the
whole country than her capture or destruction. Thus far no important
results have attended your presence in the vicinity of Nassau. It has
probably made the illicit traders more cautious and exasperated the
authorities, but has effected no captures.
	It will be well, I think, that you avoid, as far as possible, visiting
the English ports during the excited condition of the colonial authori
ties, whose sympathies, I am sorry to perceive, appear to be almost
exclusively with the insurgents.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron, Turtle Harbor.


Letter from the U. S. consul at Yassau, Neze Providence, to Acting Rear-
Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, report-
ing the presence in that port of supposed blockade runner Giraffe.

U.	S. CONSULATE AT NASSAU, NEW PROVIDENCE,
December 19, 1862.
	SIR:	The British-Confederate steamer Giraffe has just arrived from
Liverpool, Englaiid, loaded with arms, etc., and is said to be destiLled
to run the blockade to some Southern port. She is a long, low vessel,
painted light-lead color, two masts and two pipes, topsail schooiier
rigged; masts and pipes stand very raking and wide apart. She is said
to be very fast, side-wheel, and she went up the harbor at clipper
speed. Duguid, who brought out the Oreto, is captain.
Truly, yours, etc.,
SAML. WHITING,
[Acting] I~ear-Admniral WILKES, etc.	U. AS. Consul.


Report of Commander Bryson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Chip-
pewa, of the sale of C. S. S. Sumter, at Gibraltar.

U. S. GUNBOAT CHIPPEWA,
A lgeciras, Spain, December 20, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you that the rebel steamer Sumter
was sold at Gibraltar yesterday for the sum of $19,500. It seems that
some time since she was sold to private parties, natives and residents
of Gibraltar, but on their learning that the U. S. consul had proteste

Page 589

OPERATION5 01 THE CRUISERSUNION.
589
against the sale in a British port as illegal, aII(l the lack of proper
authority for the sale, the parties declined (without such authority aud
in view of the protest) to purchase, therefore the sale was annulled. I
saw the document annulling the sale. About the 11th December a
telegram was received by Mr. Chapman (the officer in charge of the
Sumter) to postpone sale for the 19th; your friend goes out by the
steamer of the 12th. The Sumter was purchased by this friend, who
arrived on the 17th or 18th in the mail steamer from Southampton, arid
so Thr as I can learn is an English engineer, supposed to be directly or
indirectly connected with the so-called Confederate cause. Her guns,
I understand, were not included in the inventory of sale, but were
presented to the party making the purchase. Yesterday (December
19), at about 4:30 p. in., her ensign and pennant were hauled down.
Since then no colors have been shown.
	The tenor of a telegram from our minister at Madrid to the U. S. consul
at Gibraltar instructing him to protest against the sale of the Sumter,
I conceive (in absence of any further orders froni the Department than
those received in Washington) to be sufficient authority for me still to
carry out my original instructions.
	I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,	A. BRYSON,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	(Jommander.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.


Letter from the U. S. consul at St. Thomas to the Secretary of the Navy,
reporting the presence in port of the Confederate privateer Retri
bation.
U.	S. CONSULATE,
St. Thomas, December 20, 1862.
	SIR: I this day forward to the I)epartment of State information
respecting a rebel schooner called the Retribution that left this port on
the 18th instant. The U. S. S. San Jacinto returned this morning from
an unsuccessful cruise after the Alabama, and immediately started in
the track of the J~etribution. I forward with this a dispatch from Cap-
tain Ronckendorff to yourself. He desired me to call your particulai
attentioim to the importance of having a small fast steamer stationed
at this place.
	It gives me great pleasure to bear testimony to the activity and ear-
nestness of Captain iRonckendorff.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servaimt,
	JOHN T. EDGAR,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	U. S. Consul.
Secretary of Navy, Washington.


Report of Commander Ronekendorif, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S.
S. San Jacinto, of continued search for C. S. S. Alabama (290), trans-
mitting information from U. S. consul at Barbados and
Acting ]JiIaster~s Mate Keene, U. S. Navy.	statement of

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP SAN JACINTO,
Island of St. Thomas, December 20, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor herewith to enclose a copy of a letter received
from our consul at Barbados.
	I proceeded to Cumana, on the main, to get information, as it wa

Page 590

590	OPERATIO~ S OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

understood that the island of Blanquilla was not inhabited. Lieuten-
ant-Commander Chandler went on shore and called oii the governor,
who stated that lie had no information of the Alabama or aiiy other
rebel vessel being on the coast or its vicinity for the last eight or nine
months. About that time a bark arrived showing the Confedeuate
flag. This was the afternoon of the 14th instant. I left and steamed
over to the island of Blanquilla, arriving off of it at 4 oclock a. m. oil
the 15th instant, and anchored at 8 a. m. Sent Masters Mate Keene
on shore, who learned from three men who inhabited the island that
the rebel steamer Alabama had left there between 6 and 7 oclock the
previous evening, and stood to the northward. I immediately got
underway and followed in that direction, arriving at Sombrero on the
18th instant, from thence to this place.
	For particulars I respectfully refer you to the statement of Mr.
Keene, herewith enclosed.
	1 arrived here at 9:50 a. m. and received iiiformation that a pirate
schooner had sailed from this place on the 18th instant. I proceed at
once in search of her.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
WA. RONCKENDORFF,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

[Enclosures.]

CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Barbados, December 11, 1862.
	SIR: The royal mail steamer Trent arrived this a. m. from Trini-
dad, having left that island on the 8th instant. The captain of the Trent
reports verbally that the rebel steamer Alabama had been at the island
of Blanquilla, and taken from a vessel there several h andred tons of
coal; that there were also two whaling vessels (American) at said
island; that the captain of the Alabama took the captains of the two
whaling vessels and confined them for five days, but did not destroy
the vessels.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
EDWARD TROWBRID~E,
U.	S. Consul.
Commander WA. IRONCKENDORFF,
U. S. Ship San Jacinto.



U.	S. SHIP SAN JACINTO,
December 16, 1862.
	SIR: In obedience to your request I herewith give you the answers
to the questions that were asked at the time I was sent on shore to the
island of Blanquilla to make enquiry concerning the rebel steanier
Alabama.
	According to orders, I took with me two Seamen, one that could speak
Spanish, the other French, one named James Smith and the other henry
Williams. Williams, although he could not speak Spanish, could under-
stand it very well, and knew all amid interpreted J)art that was said. I
found the people to be Spanish. I asked the following questions

Page 591

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
591

	Question. Have there been any suspicious looking vessels, or any
vessels at all, at this island lately0?
	Answer. Yes; there was a steamer left here last night.

	Question. What was her rig?

	Answer. Bark rigged.

	Question. Did she hoist a flag?

	Answer. Yes.

	Question. Can you describe it?

	Answer. It was a flag with three broad stripes, and as near as they could count
from there it had five stars in it.
	Question. Where did she belong?

	Answer. American, South.

	Question. Southern States?

	Answer. Yes.
	Question. Did you hear her name?

	Answer. Yes; one of the crew said it was the Alabama. They then went on of
their own accord and told that the crew were on shore and acted like the devil; that
they had all kinds of arms and that they shot everything they could seecattle,
sheep, goats, etc.; that they had plenty of gold and silver and that they paid for
most everything they shot.

	Question. What kind of a looking nan was the captain?

	Answer. I did not see him; he was not on shore at all.

	Question. How long did she lie here?

	Answer. She was here five or six days in all; she was here some time waiting when
a bark arrived and she took in coal from her, off that point (pointing at the same
time with his finger toward a small point of land).

	Question. Describe the bark.

	Answer. She had painted ports and hailed from Liverpool.

	Question. Which way did the Alabama go when she left here?

	Answer. After she was done coaling up she commenced to get up steam, when a
schooner hove in sigti. when she immediately got underway, and the last we saw of
her sloe went around that point of land in chase of the schooner (pointing at the
same time toward the north point of the island) to the northward.

	Question. Have you any idea of where she was bound from here?

	Answer. No. She went past that point of land to the northward and that was
the last I saw of her.

	Question. What time did the bark leave?

	Answer. She got underway at the same time that the Alabama did, but steered off
in the opposite direction.

	Question. How many yards had she on her masts?
	Answer. She had two on her two forward masts and room enough for one more on
each mast.

	Question. How many people are there on the island?
	Answer. Three men besides what there is here (there being three men and one
woman in the hut we were in).

	Question. Are there any houses besides this?
	Answer. Yes; two more.

	The question was again asked, what time did she leave here?
	Answer. Between 6 and 7 oclock last night

Page 592

592	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	Question. Were you glad when they left~

Answer. Yes, because we were afraid of them.

	Question. Did you see any lights at night, or did they destroy any
vessels while they were about here ~
Answer. Not that I know of; I did not hear of any.

	1 then thanked them for their information and returned on board, as
I had asked them all the questions which they would be apt to know
about and that would be of any service to us. I was convinced tlia~
they told the truth, for they were a poor, indolent-looking set, and all
they appeared to know about was what they see around them, and that
was not much, as they did not grow anything of any kind that I could
see. They lived in a small hut and were dressed very poorly and not
half dressed at that. They apl)eaVed to get their living by raising cat-
tle, etc., of which there was plenty on the island. Believing I have
stated everything which is of any consequence, I subscribe myself
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant,
HENRY T. KEENE,
Acting Masters Mate, U. S. ATavy.
Commander WM. IRONCKENIJORFF,
U.	S. Ship San Jacinto.]



Report ~f Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Mohican, of
cruise in search of C. S. S. Alabama (290).

U.	S. S. MoIHOAN,
St. Vincent, Cape Verde [Islands], December 20, 1862.
	SIR:	I have to report to the honorable Secretary of the Navy the
arrival of the U. S. S. Mohican at the Cape Verde; all well. We com-
pleted the repairs oii the machinery of this vessel on the evening of
the 12th November, amid sailed from Bermuda on the morning ot the
13th, shaping our course so as to intercept vessels bound across the
line, and continued to cruise on this line until the 11th December, when
I hauled up for the Cape Verde. I boarded four vessels on my voyage
to this place, all from foreign ports and bound for Europe, none of
which had any news of 290.
	I have made careful enquiries at these islands and find that the 290
had not visited any of them; iior has she made any arrangements for
coaliiig. The only coal to be obtained is at St. Vincent, and it will
be necessary to koep a good lookout at this port. These islamids are
very isolated amid we have to depend entirely on the miews by the Eng-
lish mail steamers, which arrive monthly. I have filled up with coal
at this port, and have purchased one months salt provisions, this being
all that could be obtained on the islands. I now have provisions on
board to last me until the 15th of April; at that time I shall require
more. Be pleased to advise nine on this subject.
	I shall leave for Porto Praya as soomi as the mail arrives, amid remain
there a few days, and then sail on a cruise in the vicinity of the Cape
Verde, but toward the Cape of Good Hope, returning to this place in
about one month or six weeks. As soon as I can get reliable infornia-
tion of the 290 I shall be oft in chase. It gives me much l)leasure to
state that I have good officers and men, ami(l that they are all well
drilled in their various duties, and the Mohican is in every way read

Page 593

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	593

to make short work of the 290, if we are so fortunate as to fall in with
her.
	I have communicated with the consuls at the different places that
I have visited. They have 110 information in relation to the 290. Ii
will forward their letters by the first vessel bound home. The
engineers of this ship are gaining more experience daily, and I hope
ill time they will acqnit themselves with more credit than they did on
leaving Philadelphia.
	When this vessel is full of coal and provisions she is very slow, and
labors very heavily in a seaway; but as we use the coal out she
iIrll)roves in her speed. When we have used up about 100 tons of
coal we can get 10 knots with a fair wind and steani.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	0. S. GLISSON,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Captain, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Nary, Washington, 1). C.


Report ~f Commander Bryson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Chippewa, of further information obtained regarding the sale of the C.
S. S. Sumter.
U.	S. GUNBOAT CHIPPEWA,
Algeciras, Spain, December 21, 1862.
	SIR: In my last communication, giving you the information of the
sale of the Sumter, I stated that she was purchased by an English
engineer. It seems that I was misinformed on this point, and have
since learned from our consul at Gibraltar that the purchaser was an
Englishman named Mileba G. Kllugander; he was accompanied by an
engineer. Yesterday, ahout 2 p. in., the Sumter hoisted the English
flag. The general opinion at Gibraltar, as I learn from our consul, is
that the sale was bona fide. It is the impression here that when the
Sumter is ready to leave Gibraltar she will be escorted by a homeward-
bound Er~glish vessel of war. Under these altered circumstances I
have written to Mr. Adams, our minister at London, for instructions
a8 to how I am to act. The party who purchased has telegraphed to
England for a master for the Sumter.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
	A. BRYSON,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	L1ommander.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.


Conditional orders of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, com-
manding West India Squadron, to Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Sonoma, regarding the search for the C. S. S.
Alabama (290).
CONDITIONAL ORDERS.

FLAG STEAMER WACHIJSETT,

Grand Cayman, December 21, 1862.
	SIR: It is my intention to go to Cienfo egos direct as possible. The
boilers of the steamer are in such a condition that I may not be able
	123A	3

Page 594

594	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

to get there, in which event 1 shall make signal to you to proceed to
Cienfuegos, while I will proceed to Cape San Antonio, to cruise off
there until my coal is barely sufficient to enable me to reach The
Havannah.
	On your arrival at Cienfuegos you will immediately communicate with
the consul, and will do it more readily by proceeding at once up to the
city. You will open any letters (public) for me from Mr. Shufeldt and
answer them. Should you hear anything of the Alabama, or that she
is expected, you have reason to believe is reliable, you will remain or
take such action as may seem to you best, to communicate with me off
Cape San Antonio, and notify the consul at Havana. In case of a want
of coal you can supply yourself at Cienfuegos. Should the Alabama
have touched or been at Cienfuegos you will not suffer her to escape
you even in neutral waters, for she is to be received to all intents and
purposes as a pirate.
	If you are detained at Cienfuegos I shall hear of it at the The Havan-
nah, whither I must go to coal, and with which place, through the
consul, you will keep me informed by a few words or letters through
the telegraph.
1 am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
[Acting] Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
	Commander T. II. STEVENS,

Commanding Steamer Sonoma, West India Squadron.




Letter from Acting Rear-Admiral Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific
Squadron, to the Secretary of the Navy, regarding the building in Eng-
land of a Confederate privateer for use in the Pacific Ocean.


U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Panama, December 22, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
December 6, 1862, en closing an extract from a letter from the U. S.
consul at Quebec.
	A report reached here not long since, from a source considered cred-
ible, that an officer from Virginia, formerly a commander in our Navy,
was preparing a formidable vessel in England for the purpose of prey-
ing on our commerce in this ocean. I was induced from this report to
proceed to Yalparaiso as soon as possible, for the purpose of gaining
some information in regard to this matter. Your letter, with its enclos-
ure, would seem to confirm the report, and will hasten my departure,
which I hope will not be delayed beyond January 5, 1863.
	It is the want of funds which detaius us at present, but I expect by
the steamer which is to arrive from San Francisco on the 4th of J ann-
ary sufficient for the present wamits of the squadron.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully,
CHAS. II. BELL,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington

Page 595

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	595

Letter from Acting Rear-Admiral Bailey, U. S. Nary, conunandinq East
Gulf Squadron, to Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, command-
ing West India Squadron, regarding the capture of the mail steamer
Ariel.
U.	S. FLAGSHIP ST. LAWRENCE,
Key West, December 23, 1862.
	SIR: The mail steamer Arid arrived last night from Aspinwall and
reports that on the 7th instant, between the east end of Cuba and Sari
Domingo, she was chased and captured by the rebel steamer A labama.
Major Garland, seven subalterns of the Marine Corps, Commander Sar-
tori and Lieutenant Steece, of the Navy, who were passengers, and 140
marines were released on parole.
	In consequence [of] the Arids having on board some 600 passengers,
about one-half of them being women and children, Captain Raphael
Semmes took from her abont $10,000, her freight, and ransomed her,
allowing Captain A. G. Jones to proceed on his voyage. Captain Jones
represents the Alabama as lying iii wait for the treasure steamer from
Aspinwall, and he heard a report before he left Aspinwall that a steamer
answering the description of the Alabama was lying at or off~ Porto
[Puerto] Bello [United States of Colombia]. I have nothing in port
suitable to send after her. The Arid left the treasure which was to
have come by her on the isthmus.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
THEODORUS BAILEY,
Acting Rear.Admiral, etc.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,

Commanding West India Squadron.




Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. ]Jfohican,
transmitting correspondence with authorities at Bermuda, West Indies,
regarding repairs to that vessel, also the Queens proclamation of neu-
trality.

U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Porto Praya, December 23, 1862.
	SIR: I herewith enclose you a copy of my letter to his Excellency
the governor of Bermuda, with his answer, and also the Queens proc-
1~
amation. While at Bermuda every facility was given to me to expe-
dite the repairs on the machinery of this vessel, by Captain Glasse, of
the royal dockyard. Nearly all the work was done on board of this
vessel; what was done in the dockyard could not be done on board,
8nd was paid for by us, animonuting to less than $40. I filled up with
water and coal and sailed on the morning of the 13th of iNovcnrber, in
search of 290, or the Alabama.
	The coal received at Bermuda was coal belonging to the United
States, in the hands of Mr. Allen, our consul. I should have sent these
communications sooner, but no safe opportunity has offered.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. GLISSON,
Captain~. U. S~ Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 596

596	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSU4ION.
[Enclosures.]

U.	S. S. MOHIcAN,
Bermuda, Nov ember 4, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acquaint your Excellency that, havin gput
into these islands with the machinery of my vessel disabled, it will
probably require some six days to complete my repairs, and haviiig
been detained on the passage by the trouble indicated, I would ~vish
your permission to take on board 100 tons of coal and 3,200 gallons of
water, which is all the supplies I shall require. It is my intention to
leave here at the earliest possible moment and to proceed direct to the
Cape Verde Islands.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servaiit,
0. 5. 0-LiSSoN,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
	His Excellency H. ST. GEORGE ORD,
Governor and Commander in Chief, Bermuda.




GOVERNMENT HousE, Bermuda, November 4, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
this days date, acquainting me that, being on your way to the Cape
Verde Islands and having been obliged to put into these islands, the
machinery of your vessel being disabled, it will probably require some
six days to complete repairs; and having been detained on the passage
by the trouble above indicated, you request permission to take on board
100 tons of coal and 3,200 gallons of water, being all the supplies you
require, after which it is your intention to leave this at the earliest pos-
sible moment, and proceed to your destination.
	In the iuterview I had the honor to have with you yesterday, I stated
that I had much pleasure in granting you permission to remain hem
until the necessary repairs to the machinery of your vessel were co~u-
pleted, and that I felt confident Captain Glasse, the senior naval offi-
cer, would be gla4 to render you any assistance in his power toward
this end. Captain Glasse will, I have no doubt, abo supply you with
the water of which you are in need.
	With respect to the coal, although the instructions issued by her
l.l ajesty for the maintenance of neutrality, copy of which I had the
honor to forward to you the 2d instant, prohibited the supply of coal to
vessels of war of the United States or Confederate States, except to
the extent that may be sufficient to carry them to the nearest port of
their own country or some nearer destination; yet, as the object of
these instructions is unquestionably to avoid aiding the warlike pur-
poses of either belligerent, and as you inform me that you are not
directly engaged in belligerent operations against the Confederate
States, but are proceeding to a foreign station in the performance of
ordinary duty, I conceive I shall not be transgressing tile spirit of these
instructions in granting you permission to supply yourself with 100
tons of coal from the source of St. George, which you yesterday indi-
cated to me.
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient, humble servant~
H. ST. GEORGE ORD,
Governor and Commander in Chief.
Captain 0. 5. GLISSON, U. S. Navy

Page 597

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS-~---UNION.	597

GOVERNMENT HousE,
Mount Jiangton, Bermuda, November 1, 1862.
	SIR: Her Majesty the Queen of Great Britain, being fully determined
to observe the duties of neutrality during the existing hostilities
between the United States and the States calling themselves the
Confederate States of America, and being, moreover, resolved to pre-
vent, as far as possible, the use of her Majestys harbors, ports, and
coasts, and waters within her Majestys territorial jurisdiction, in aid
of the warlike purposes of either belligerent, I am commanded to coin-
municate for your information and guidance extracts from certain rules
laid down by her Majestys orders and directions, and which came in
force in these islands on the 5th day of March, 1862.
I have the honor to be sir, your most obedient, humble servant,
H.	ST. GEORGE ORB,
Governor and Commander in Chief.
	Captain OLIVER S. GLIssON, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Mohican, Grassy Bay, Bermuda.



Order of Commodore Ringgold, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Sabine,
to Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Mohican, to pro-
ceed to island of liogo in search of C. S. S. Alabama (290).

U.	S. FRIGATE SAEINE,
Porto Praya, Santiago, Cape Verde, December 25, 1862.
	SIR:	By the arrival, an hour or two since, of the French schooner
Fovette, three days from the island of Fogo, information is received
from passengers on board of a report prevailing there that on Tuesday
last a boat from an American whaleship, lying to off the harbor, came
in and reported the capture, on the day previous, of an American
whaling bark off the north end of Fogo by a steamer without colors,
supposed to be the Alabama, or 290. Under the circumstances I sug-
gest to you to proceed, without a moments delay, in the ilfohican, to
the town of Luz, on the west side of Fogo, and ascertain all the par-
ticulars, and whether the report referred to has foundation, in order
that you may act as circumstances may demand. Our consul, Mr.
Morse, now being at Brava, in close proximity with Fogo, it may be
to your advantage to communicate with him, should it not interfere with
the celerity of your movements.
	If the Alabama should prove to be in this vicinity, it is probable she
may look in at Porto Grande, this place, or at one of the other islands;
Itherefore also suggest to you to look into Porto Grande and other ports,
particularly Mordeira Bay, in Sal and English Roads, and Bonavista,
before you returii to this place. I propose to remain at anchor here, or
cruise in the immediate vicinity, as circumstances may best justify, until
I can communicate with you again, after you shall have made the inves-
tigations suggested, as I think it probable the Alabama may appear off
this harbor.
	The American brig Eastern State, from Boston, now here, being
loaded with provisions, would be an easy prey and valuable prize to
the Alabama,in the defenseless condition of the forts, the authorities
being without powder sufficient to return the salute I proposed, and,
while I can protect her, I hold a commanding position, from which I
can doubtless act with greater advantage than if I were to leave th

Page 598

598	OPERATIONS OF THE CRIYISEESIJNION.

port unprotected. Should you forlunately encounter the Alabama, I
have rio doubt of the disposition you will make of her, and, wishing
you all success,
I am, most truly, your friend,
CADWALADER RINGGOLD,
Commodore, U. S. Navy, Commanding Sabine.
Captain 0. 5. GLISSON, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Mohican.



Capture of the English schooner Mont Blanc, December 25, 1862.

Report of Commander Collins, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Octorara, of the capture by
that vessel of the English schooner Mont Blanc.

U.	S. S. OCTORARA,
At Sea, December 26, 1862.
SIR:
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

	Also on the 25th instant, about 14- miles N. E. of Sand Cay, in lati-
tude about 26~ 49 N. and longitude about 790 W., the south-
west end of Great Bahama Island bearing southerly about 74- miles,
the English schooner Mont Blanc, of Nassau, New Providence, of
about 10 tons, from Green Turtle Cay, bound to Port Royal, S. C.,
with 85 bags of salt. She had a crew of five persons, and her cap~
tam, Azariali Curry, confessed to having been near the mouth of
Indian River, from which place he had been driven by stress of
weather. Her ownership, cargo, rate of wages for captain and crew,
destination, and size are some of the reasons for her seizure. I will
send her to Key West, in charge of Acting Master L. G. Cook, for
adjudication.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
N.	COLLINS,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

[Endorsement.~


	Forwarded, and attention requested to the fact that one of the cap.
tures was made within a marine league of one of the keys of the
Bahamas, over which the English claim jurisdiction.
T. BAILEY,
Acting Rear-Admiral.

Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Collins, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Octorara, censuring him for infringement of laws of neutrality in the capture of the English
schooner Mont Blanc.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, May 18, 1863.

	SIR:	In the case of the British schooner Mont Blanc, seized by you
on the 25th of December last, within a marine league of one of the cays
of the Bahamas, over which the English Government claims jurisdic-
tion, and sent to Key West, where she was restored to her owners
without trialthe seizure being so manifestly illegala claim has beeu
made for compensation for the wrong committed, and the President ha

Page 599

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	599

admitted the justice of it and given assurances that due reparation will
be made to the owners of the vessel.
	In announcing this fact, I am required to communicate to you that
you have incnrred the displeasure of the President by seizing the Mont
Blanc within British -waters, in violation of neutral rights and against
the well-known instructions of this Department, and to say that a
repetition of such proceedings will be visited with more severe and
effective censure. The Department can not but think that the seizure
was made without due consideration of the impropriety of it and the
consequences that might ensue.
	I enjoin upon you to be more cautious, and by no means infringe upou
the territorial waters of friendly and neutral nations. Enclosed is a
copy of the circular letter of the Department, of the 18th of August last,
upon that subject, which you will carefully observe in all of its particu-
lars.
I am, respectfully, etc.,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commander N. COLLINS,	Secretary of the Navy.
Commanding U. S. S. Octorara, West India Squadron.


Report of Commander Collins, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Octorara. in response to the
charge of the illegal capture of the English schooner Mont Blanc.

U.	S. STEAMER OCTORARA,
Key West, July 5, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the 18th of May last, in relation to the illegal seizure by me of the
British schooner Mont Blanc within I marine league of one of the cays
of the Bahamas, over which the English Government claim jurisdiction.
I aiii informed that I have incurred the displeasure of the President
by seizing the Mont Blanc within British waters, in violation of neutral
rights and against the well-known instructions of the iNavy Depart-
ment, and that the Department can but think that the seizure was
made without due consideration of the impropriety of it and the con-
sequences that might ensue.
	In answer I respectfully submit that in seizing the Mont Blanc,
about lA miles distance from Sand Cay, as I reported at the time to
the Navy Department, I did so in accordance with the verbal instruc-
tions of Admiral Wilkes, whose full verbal approval of the act I had,
even after the vessel had been restored to her owners.
	Trusting that this very clear case of carrying out the instructions of
my immediate superior will fully justify my course before the Presi-
dent and the Navy Department,
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servaut,
N.	COLLINS,

Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

[Endorsement.]

	He should have required a written order from Admiral Wilkes to
violate the instructions of the Secretary.
[Fox.

Page 600

600	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Supplementary report of Commander Collins, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Octorara, in the
matter of the illegal capture of the English schooner Mont Blanc, transmitting the final
decision of the district court of Florida.
U.	S. S. OCTORARA,
Key West, July 8, 1863.
	SIR:	In reply to your letter of censure of the 18th of May last, for
the capture of the British schooner Mont Blanc, I beg leave to make
this supplementary answer:
	1.	In receiving verbal instructions from Acting Rear-Admiral C.
Wilkes, by which I was to be governed in making captures about the
Bahama Banks, I was informed that I need not consider rocks, small
patches of sand, or sin all uninhabited cays as neutral territory, and
that he would authorize me to make captures within 3 miles of such
places, provi(led they were good prizes in other respects.
	2.	Saud Cay is a small, uninhabited inlet.
	3.	By the final decision of Judge Marvin, a copy of which is here-
with enclosed, it is stated there was probable cause for capture and
detention, and that each ])arty pay their own costs.
	Trusting that the statements in this and my other letter will fully
relieve me from all blame by the President and the Navy Department,
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
		N.	COLLINS,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,		 Commander.
Secretary of the Navy.

[Enclosure.]

DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF FLORIDA.
	THE UNITED STATES	)
	vs.	~ Prize.
THE SCHOONER MONT BLANC AND CARGO.)

FINAL ORDER.

	This cause having come on to be heard, it is ordered, by consent of
all the parties in interest, that the vessel and cargo be restored to the I
claimant for the benefit of whom it may concern; that there was prob.
able cause for the capture and detention of the vessel, and that each
party pays his own costs.
		WM. MARVIN,
	Entered January 119, 1863.	Juclqe.
	A true copy. Attest:	GEORGE D. ALLEN,
		Clerk.


Report of Captain Wendy, U. S. Yavy, commanding U. S. ship Saratoga,
o	arrival at Philadelphia.

U.	S. S. SARATOGA,
Navy Yard, Philadelphia, December 27, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report the arrival of this vessel after a pas-
sage of thirty-seven days from Lisbon.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
	WM. M. GLENDY,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Captain.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 601

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	601

Report of Commander Bryson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Chippewa,
relative to steamer Sumters getting underway, and change of name to
Gibraltar.
U.	S. GUNBOAT CHIPPEWA,
Off Algeciras, December 27, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report to you that on the 24th instant, at
about 12:30 p. in., the Sumter got underway an I stood out toward the
straits, keeping within English waters. I immediately startcd in pur.
suit and kept within range of her, but on reaching Europa Point she
turned and stood to her former anchorage. I have since been informed
that it was nominally a trial trip, but that she would have at once
proceeded to sea if I had made no demonstration. I am infor:ned also
that she has received a master here, and that the owners have applied
to the governor of Gibraltar for an escort and a British register for her
under the name of the Gibraltar, of ~ which na me has been
painted in large white letters on her stern. From the s me. source I
learn that the governor has refused to give her a register until such
time as he shall receive an answer to a telegram sent by him to London
in relation to the matter. This answer is expected about the 29th of
the mouth. Her rig remains unchanged, but she has a broad white
streak around the upper part of her hull, and another around the top
of her smokestack. With these exceptions her general appcarance is
the same as before.
	Up to the present time I have received rio reply from Mr. Adamns,by
telegraph or otherwise, nor do I at this late day expect any in time to
profit by it.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
A.	BRYSON,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.


[Telegram.]
NAVY DEPARTMENT,
December 28, 1862.
	Direct the Alabama to proceed without delay to St. Thomas and
report to Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes. Should he be absent on his
arrival, Commander Nichols will sail in pursuit of the 290 in such direc.
tion as he may probably fall in with her.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Commodore J. B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant Navy Yard, Boston.


Order and instructions from the commandant of the navy yard, Boston, to
Goinmander Nichols, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Alabama, to pro-
ceed to St. Thomas, West Indies, and cruise in pursuit of the 290 (C. S.
S. Alabama).
COMMANDANTS OFFICE, U. S. NAVY YARD,
Boston, December 28, 1862.
	SIR:	You will proceed without delay with the U. S. S. Alabama,
under your command, to St. Thomas, and report to Acting Lear-Ad

Page 602

602	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

niiral Wilkes. Should Admiral Wilkes be absent on your arrival, yoa
will sail in pursuit of the 290 iii such direction as you may consider it
most probable that you will fall in with her.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commander E. T. NICHOLS, U. S. Navy,	Commandant.
Commanding U. S. S. Alabama, Navy Yard, Boston.


Letter from Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West India
Squadron, to B. J. y Patrullo, es q., U. S. consul, Merida, Mexico, rela-
tive to steamer Virginia.
U.	S. S. WACHUSETT,
At Mugeres Island, December 29, 1862.
	SIR: I have to call your attention to an affair that has taken place
at this point. On my arrival here day before yesterday I fi~nnd the
steamer Virginia, Captain Johnson, here. Captain Johnson has lately
come from The llavannah in the schooner Pepita, with various articles
necessary for the steamer, which were sold by the parties representing
the owners to Mr. Francis P. Drain, who has come here and taken pos-
session of the steamer. She arrived under Spanish colors, and has
been detained by the Mexican authorities as a slaver, of which there
is no proof whatever. She has been thoroughly examined by my offi-
cers, and we have discovered papers, and also the certificate of the
captain that she is now and has been bought for a Confederate vessel,
and is intended to operate against the United States, and is therefore
a good prize to us, if met at sea. I have signed an agreement with
the officer here to put a guard on board for her protection against the
rebel crew, and to protect the property, and to hold the vessel until it
is proved whether or not she is a slaver, when if so proven I am ready
to give her up, but if she is not, then she falls a prize to my squadron
if taken at sea. I shall not, of course, capture her in this port, unless
the anthorities consent to it, which I will not ask, as I suppose they
wouldbe loath to grant [it].
	I shall return here by the time the decision is made in Merida, as it
can not take long to decide where there is no evidence to support the
charge of having been engaged in the slave trade.
	I forward you the agreement entered into, and also a copy of the cer-
tificate of Captain Johnson, who is now master of the Virginia, wit-
nessed by one of my officers, and one from the second cagincer, which
I desire for use in our behalf. Your prompt attention to this matter
will oblige me and confer a service to the Union and Government of
the United States.
[am, very respectfully, yours, etc.,
CHARLES WILKES,
	Acting. Rear-Admiral, L1ommanding West India Squadron.
RAMON J. ~ PATRULLO, Esq., U. S. Consul ]Iferida.


Report of Commander Ronchendorif, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
San Jacinto, of arrival at St. Thomas, West Indies, from a cruise in
search of the C. S. S. Alabama (290).

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP SAN JACINTO,
St. Thomas, December 29, 18625 p. m.
	SIR: I have the honor to report just arriving here from a cruise look-
ing after the Alabama and the two schooners

Page 603

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	603

	I herewith enclose the statement made me by Consul John T. Edgar,
of this place. I also enclose a copy of a letter received soon after my
arrival from Commander Sartori in relation to the capture of the steamer
Ariel off Cape Maysi by the Alabama.
	I shall run down along the islands of Porto [Puerto] Rico, San
Domingo, and Cuba, cruising, as in my best judgment, for the rebel
vessels, unless news should arrive by the steamer from Havana, expected
to-morrow morning, changing my direction. I have on board some
three weeks provisions, and consequently will have to replenish, and
intend to go to Key West for that purpose, and hope there to get fur-
ther instructions from the Department.
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant.
WM. RONOKENDOEFF,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander Ronekendorif, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S.
S.	San Jacinto, relative to Co~federate privateers Dixie and Retribu-
tion.
U.	S. STEAM SLOOP SAN JACINTO,
St. Thomas, December 29, 1862.
	Sin: On my arrival at St. Thomas on the 20th instant, I received
the following information from our consul, John T. Edgar: That two
schooners had left St. Thomas, supposed to be privateers under the rebel
flag; one, the Dixie, on the 15th instant; the othem, the Retribution, on
the 18th instant. The Retribution arrived from Charleston, S. C., on
the 7th instant, laden with cotton, etc.; is a small black schooner of
150 tons; was formerly a steamer, consequently her masts are set wide
apart; her sails are old and quite dark; her bow perpendicular, rather
inclining in, as is the case with our tugboats; the wood, filling up the
space which the propeller occupied, can easily be discerned; carries a
jib at th~ knighthead. She is reported as having an unusually large
number of men for so small a vessel, and men thought to be of an official
and military character; and also that in her hold, according to her man-
ifest, she had three guns.
	The Dixie, a Danish schooner, was purchased by the master of the
Retribution, or his agent, and lay alongside of the Retribution and
openly fitted for sea, and secretly and by night received from the Retri-
bution packages of mysterious and suspicious character, and that
purchases of ammunition, military weapons, and handcuffs had been
made, or were attempted to be made, and an additi9nal number of men
were procured and shipped for the two vessels. The Dixie is a small
black schooner of about 130 to 150 tons. She went to sea on the night
of the 15th instant in defiance of the guns of the fort, which were fired
at her but failed to stop her.
	After the departure of the Dixie an examination of the Retribution
was made, bnt finding nothing of a suspicious character on board of
her, she was allowed to go to sea, which she did early on the morning
of the 18th instant.
	It is supposed, Irom the secret and mysterious departure of the Dixie
that the Retribution had transferred her armament, stores, etc., to that
vessel, to be again transferred to the Retribution at some convenient

See p. 579

Page 604

604	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

place decided upon. There were some 12 or 15 men induced to leave
American vessels to join the Retribution.
	These proceedings were carried on in violation of neutrality laws,
and after our consul had filed a most emphatic protest with the gov-
ernor of the island.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. RONOKENDOUFF,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Order from Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Lieutenant Houston, U S. Marine Corps, to repair
on board the steamer Virginia and take charge of her.

FLAG- STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Mugeres Harbor, December 29, 1862.
	SIR: You will detail a guard of 15 marines from this vessel to repair
on board and take charge of the Confederate steamer Virginia, Captain
Johnson. You will remain on board of the Virginia and keep her here
until my return, or until you shall receive further orders from me.
I am, very respectfully, sir, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
[Acting] Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
	Lieutenant G. P. HOUSTON,
Commanding U. S. Marine Corps, Wachusett.


Order and instructions from the Secretary of the Navy to Commander
Cooper, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Connecticut, to proceed to
Aspinwall and convoy California steamers, enclosing letter from C.
Vanderbilt, esq.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 80, 1862.
	SIR:	Enclosed is a copy of a letter from Cornelius Vanderbilt, the
owner of the line of California steamers running to and from Aspii~wali.
You will get underway on the 1st proximo and proceed to Aspiiiwal
via the east end of Cuba, and upon your arrival at that port you will
give convoy as suggested in Mr. Vanderbilts letter. If you shall hear
of the destruction or capture of the 290, you will return at once to
Hampton Roads.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
Commander GEO. H. COOPER,
Commanding U. S. S. Connecticut, Hampton Roads.
[Enclosure.]

No. 5 BOWLING GREEN,
New York, December 29, 1862.
	SIR:	I hope you will not consider it improper for me to make the fol-
lowing suggestion:
	It strikes me that the rebel steamer Alabama is now looking for a
homeward-bound California steamer. If the steamer Vanderbilt, or
some other of sufficient speed, could be placed in the Caribbean Sea t

Page 605

OPEI~ATION~ OF THE CRUISE1l~IJNION.	605

e~nvoy the stea~ners on leavipg Aspinwall for two anl one-half or three
days up to the west end of Cuba, then returning to Aspinwall to be
ready fQr the sailing of the next steamer, which is ten days apart, it
would give ample security and would give her a better chance to fall
in with the 290, as it seems she is determined to be on the track of the
California steamers. In this case I would direct the California steamers
all to go and come the west side of Cuba, as it appears to me there is
little danger between this place and that point, inasmuch as our own
coast is so well guarded by our own blockading squadron.
Very respectfully, yours,
C.	YANDEREILT.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.


Report of Acting Lieutenant Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Vanderbilt, of arrival at Payal and account of cruise from New
York.
U.	S. S. VANDERBILT,
Fayal, December 30, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my arrival at this port on the 24th
instant, having in obedience to your order of 6th December sailed
from New York on the 10th, and on my voyage over keeping well in
the track of our outward-bound ships, but without hearing anything
of the Alabama.
	Yesterday, by an arrival from Boston, bringing dates of the 17th, I
heard of her having been in Martinique, etc., and have decided to sail
at once for Barbados in the hope of hearing of her at that port.
	I have just finished taking in 350 tons of coal, and as soon as I can
learn the news froni the steamer from Lisbon now coming in, shall sail.
I propose, if successful in hearing of the Alabama at Barbados, to call
at some of the French islands, and should I hear Qf her, to follow her
(under your previous instructions) either to the coast of Brazil or
wherever she may have gone.
	I would also report that Acting Assistant Paymaster Tolfree, of this
ship, has this day drawn on you (by my order) for $4,994.50 at ten
days sight, being in payment for 350 tons coal purchased for this ship.
This, I believe, is in order.
	I regret that I am not empowered to draw on London, as the course
of exchange is much more favorable for the Government on that point.
	With great satisfaction, I can report this ship in good order every
way.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	C. II. BALDWIN,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Acting Lieutenant, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


[Teiegraiii

NEW YORK, December 30, 1862.
(Received, Washington, 1 :25 p. in.)
	Would it not be better for theinterest of all parties and give security
to all the California steamers which are coming every ten days to orde

Page 606

606	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

the Connecticut to act [as] convoy in the manner suggested in my letter
to you by yesterdays mail?
C.	VANDERBILT.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, concerning unsound condition of the boilers of his ship.

FLAG STEAMER WACHUSEPT, December 31, 1862.
	SIR:	I have in a previous letter informed the Department of the
unsound condition of the boilers of this vessel, and I now transmit a
copy of a communication* from William D. Pendleton, engineer in
charge, reiterating what he had previously said on the subject, as will
be seen by his letter of the 13th instant, which is in the possession of
the Department, and asking for a survey on the boilers. This vessel
has not been efficient since she left the United States. On more thami
one occasion when a full head of steam was needed tubes have burst,
and under a very reduced pressure, causing much delay and sometimes
endangering the safety of the ship.
	I shall deem it to be my duty whenever the opportunity offers to
order a survey on the boilers, and I fear the result will be that they
will be condemned. This state of things makes it necessary for me
again to call the attention of the Department to the inefficiency of the
squadron nuder my command. None of the vessels are fully capable
of performing the duties assigned to them.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Letter from Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. ]Ifohican,
to Commodore Ringgold, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Sabine,
relative to cruise and enclosing a letter from the U. S. consul, Cape
Verde Islands.
U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Porto Praya, December 31, 1862.
	SIR:	On the receipt of your communication of the 25th instant, I
got underway immediately and stood out to sea, shaping my course h
the island of Fogo. At daylight on the 26th I communicated with the
authorities of the town of Luz. on the island of Fogo, and obtained
the following information:
	On the 19th of December, off the north end of the island, a large
steamer, bark rigged, with English colors flying, was seen to fire on
a vessel near by and soon after take her in tow. This information was
registered in the books of the custom-house at Lnz. They were at
the time under the impression that it was an English manof-war
ca~)turing a slaver. This being all the information I could obtain I
sailed for the island of Brava and communicated with our consul, and
received him on board of my vessel. Enclosed you will find a copy of
Omitted

Page 607

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	607

his letter. I then shaped my course for Porto Grande, on the island of
St. Vincent, arriving at that port at 9 oclock p. m. on the 27th
December.
	Deeming it of the utmost importance to keep this vessel filled up
with coal, I took on board 54 tons, and not being able to get any
information of 290 I sailed for the island of Sel [Sal], arriving at that
island at 4 oclock p. m. on the 29th December. I communicated with
the authorities of Mordeira Bay and the town St. Maria, and obtained
the following information:
	On the 25th instant it was reported by the country people on the
western side of the island as having seen a steamer with a schooner in
tow, no colors flying; and on the I st December the fishermen heard
heavy guns for several hours, but did not see any vessel. A short time
alter the firing a sailing vessel was seen standing to the eastward.
	These reports come from the most ignorant class of the people and
due allowance will have to be made for the truth of these statements.
There is no vessel in Mordeira Bay. I found at St. Maria three vessels
one English brig, one Portuguese schooner, and oiie American whaling
schooner, none of which had any news of 290.
	I sailed from the Isle of Sel on the morning of the 30th instant, look.
ing into the English iRoad on Bonavista, and, finding no vessel in the
bay, shaped my course for Porto Praya. I regret to inform the com-
modore that I have heard nothing positive of the 290, or Alabama.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5 GLISsON,
	Commodore CADWALADER RINGGoLD,	Captain, U. S. Navy.
Commanding U. S. Frigate Sabine.

LEnclosure.]

CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES,
fJape Verde Islands, Brava, December 26, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
this date, requesting any information that I may have respecting a
piratical vessel called the 290, or Alabama. In answer, I have to say
that I have no recent authentic information respecting that vessel
whatever.
	I avail myself of your kind invitation to take passage to Praya in
the ship under your command.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. H. MoRsE,
U.	S. Consul, Cape Verde Islands.
	Captain 0. 5. GLISSON, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. &#38; S. ]Jifohican, off Brava, Cape Verde.


Letter front Commodore Ringgold, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
ptain Glisson U S N
Sabine to Ca	, . . avy, commanding U. S. S. Mohican,
of thanks and approval of course pursued.

U.	S. FRIGATE SABINE,
Porto Praya, Cape Verde, December 31, 1862.
	SIR: Your dispatch of this date, enclosing a copy of a letter from
our worthy consul, Mr. Morse, has been received. I thank you fbi the
very prompt manner in which you have carried out the suggestion

Page 608

608	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

conveyed to you in my letter of the 25th instant. It was highly proper
we should obtain all the information touching the reports in circula-
tirni of the occurrences off Fogo, and the movements of supposed
suspicious vessels.
	You acted wisely in filling up with coal at Porto Grande. I enclose
a letter of Paymaster Harris, of this ship, in respect to the bread, etc.,
you requested me, on your (lepalture, to secure for your ship.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CADWALADER HINGGOLD,
Commodore, U. S. Navy, Commanding Sabine.
	Captain 0. S. GLIssoN, U. S. Navy,
Commanding ]lfohican.



Letter from Commodore Ringgold, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Sabine, to W. II. Morse, esq., U. S. consul, Cape Verde Islands, request-
ing information regarding American commerce in that vicinity.

U.	S. FRIGATE SABINE,
Porto Praya, Cape Verde, December 31, 1862.
	Mv DEAR SIR: It was my intention on your arrival this morning
from Brava in the Mohican to address you a letter, with the desire to
obtain all or any information you may possess touching the movements
or any depredations of the steamer 290, or Alabama, or any other Con
federates in this vicinity; but your Jetter addressed to Captain 0. S.
Glisson, 26th instant, a copy of which he has transmitted to me, covers
the ground. it; however, you have any intelligence touching our whal-
ing interests or commerce generally, in intercourse with the islands, I
will be glad to possess it, in order that I may communicate it on my
return to the United States.
	If you have any dispatches or letters you may wish conveyed to the
United States, it will give me ~pleasure to take charge of them. * *
I am, most truly, your friend,
CADWALADER RINGGOLD,
Commodore, U. S. Navy, Commanding Sabine.
W.	II. MORSE, Esq.,
U.	S. Consul, Porto Praya, Cape Verde.



[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 31, 1862.
	The California steamer Arid leaves New York tomorrow at noon.
The Department has promised that the (Jonnecticut will meet the Ariel off
the west end of Mariguana lsland and accompany her thence to Aspin-
wall, after which the Connecticut will carry out the written instructiois
of yesterday. There are no further instructions for the Connecticut.
Answer if Commander Cooper fully understands these instructions.
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary oJ the Navy.
	Acting I~ear-Admiral LEE,
Hampton Roads, Va

Page 609

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	609

Report of Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S~ S. Tusca-
rora, of arrival at Gibraltar and relative to cruise of his ship.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP TTJSCARORA,
Gibraltar, December 31, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report to you my arrival at this place, being
in need of provisions and clothing for my crew.
	My letter of October 26 will have informed you of my cruise. I
sailed from Lisbon November 4 and returned to the Azores, cruising in
that vicinity, and twice visiting Madeira, but with no tidings what-
ever of the pirate Alabama, which I am satisfied has gone to the south-
ward. My stay at this place will not exceed two days. I must then go
to Cadiz to enable the engineer to make good some trifling defects,
occupying, perhaps, six days, which done, I propose cruising as far
south as the Cape Verde Islands. Should I gain any intelligence of
the pirate, I intend to follow, lead where he may, believing that in so
doing I shall meet the views of the Department.
	I have no communications from the Department since July, and am
consequently ignorant if you had other plans for me. In my frequent
movements lately our mails via London have miscarried. Letters
addressed to care of our consul at Gibraltar have reached us with more
certainty.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
	T. AUGS. CRAVEN,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander.
Secretary of the Navy.

[Telegram.]

NEW YORK, December 31 1862.
(Received Washington, 12:10 p. in.)
	As it will cause no delay, will it not be well to order the Connecticut
to accompany the Arid through the passage, east side of Cuba, this trip
out ~ The Arid will sail from here at noon to-morrow. Hereafter I
will order all the California steamers to go and come the west side of
Cuba, as spoken of before.
C.	VANDERBILT.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.

[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 31,1862.
	The Connecticut can accompany the Arid by meeting that vessel off
the west end of Mariguana Island, or if you will send the Ariel to
Hampton Roads they can start thence together. Answer by telegraph.
	GIDEON WELLES,
C.	VANDERBILT,
	New York.	[Secretary of the Navy.]

[Telegram.]
	-	NEW YORK, December 31, 1862.
		 (Received Washingtcn, 6 p. in.)
	I will direct the Arid to fall in with the Connecticut off the west end
of Mariguana.
	C. VANDERBILT.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.
	123A	3

Page 610


Page 611

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

FROM APRIL 18, 1861, TO DECEMBER 31, 1862.



61

Page 612


Page 612A

CONFEDERATE STATES STEAMER SUMTER

Page 612B


Page 613

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

FROM APRIl1 18, 1261, TO DECEMBER 31, 1862.



Cruise of the C. S. S. Sumter, 18611862.

Order of the Secretary of the Navy of the C1onfederat~ States to Commander Semmes, C. S.
Navy, to assume command of the C. S. S. Sumter.

CONFEDERATE STATES OF AMERICA,
Navy Department, llfontgomery, April 18, 1861.
	SIR:	You are hereby detached from duty as Chief of the Light-I~ouse
Bureau, and will proceed to New Orleans and take command of the
steamer Sumter. The following officers have been ordered to report to
you for duty on board that vessel, viz: Lieutenants John M. Kell, IR. T.
Chapman, John M. Stribling, and William E. Evans; Paymaster Henry
Myers, Surgeon Francis L. Galt, Midshipmen William A. Hicks, Rich-
ard F. Armstrong, Albert G. Hudgins, John F. Holden, and JosQph
ID. Wilson.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
S.	R. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy.
Commander RAPHAEL SEMMES, C. S. Navy.

	NOTE.J returned to Montgomery from INew York, whither I had
gone on special service, on the 4th of April, and was appointed by the
President, npou the nomination of the Secretary of the Treasury, Chief
of the Light-House Bureau, a few days thereafter. I entered upon
duty in this bureau, but there being every prospect of a war, and an
opportunity offering of getting afloat, 1 accepted the above command,
tendered me by the Secretary of the Navy, and left Montgomery for
New Orleans on the day of the date of the order. I reached New
Orleans on Monday, the 22d, and on the same day inspected (in com-
pany with Lieutenant Chapman, who had accompanied me from Mobile)
my ship. I found her a staunch, well-built steani propeller of 501 tons
burden. She was formerly known as the Havana, and plied between
New Orleans arid Havana as a packet ship. I immediately took her
in hand, removed her upper cabins and other top hamper, and set
mechanics at work upon her, making the necessary alterations of hull
and spars, cabins, etc., and strengthening her main deck, laying a berth
deck, constructing additional coal bunkers, magazine and shell room,
etc., to adapt her to war purposes.
[IR. SEMMES.]
81

Page 614

614 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

Report of Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, of arrival at New Orleans for the purpose of
assuming command of the C. S. S. Sumter.

NEW ORLEANS, April 22, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform the Department of my arrival at
this place this morning. I have visited and examined the steamer
Sumter and am pleased with her. J have no doubt that with the proper
alterations I shall be able to make her a very suitable vessel for our
purposes. To morrow morning the mechanics will take her in hand for
the pnrpose of removing her top hamper, and I shall proceed with her
alterations and equipment with all possible dispatch.
	1 shall have to rely npon you for the battery, and I request that the
guns ordered from Pensacola may be dispatched to me immediately,
inclnding the boat howitzer. If they can not be sent by sea, they
should be sent by rail to Montgomery, and shipped thence by boat.
There being a large force of working hands and plenty of teams at
the gap, the gnns could be very speedily transported over this nufin-
ished portion of the road. What of the 8-inch gun from Charleston
and of the small arms ordered ~
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]

	Hon. S. iR. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy, Montgomery, Ala.




List of Officers of the C. S. S. Sumter.

NEW ORLEANS, May 23, 1861.

	SIR: In compliance with your order of the.l7th instant, I have the
honor to enclose herewith a list of the officers of the C. S. S. Sumter.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]

	Hon. S. iR. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy, Montgomery, Ala.

List of officers of th~ C. S. S. Sumter.

Commander, Raphael Semmes.	Engineers, William P. Brooks, second as
Lieutenants, Jno. [M.] Kell,	sistant.
	Robt. T. Chapman.	Matthew OBrien, third assist
	Jno. M. Stribling.	ant.
	Win. E. Evans.	Simeon W. Cummings, third
Paymaster, Henry Myers.	assistant.
Surgeon, Francis L. Gait.	Boatswain, Benj. P. McCaskey.
First Lientenant Marines, B. K. Howell.	Gunner, Thos. C. Cuddy.
Midshipmen, Win. A. Hicks.	Sailmaker, M. P. Beaufort.
Albert G. Hudgins.	Carpenter, William Robinson.
Jos. D. Wilson.	Captains Clerk, W. Breedlove Smith.
Richard F. Armstrong.	Pursers Clerk, Sam. W. Hutchinson.
Engineers, Miles J. Freeman, first assist-
ant

Page 615

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	615

Report of Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, relative to that
vessel.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
New Orleans, La., June 14, 1861.
	SIR: I have had the honor to receive your letter* of instructions of
the 7th instant, together with the commissions of myself and officers
which accompanied it.
	I shall drop down the river to-morrow, and, taking a positioi~ within
observing distance of the enemy, I will endeavor to find an opportunity
of running his blockade. At present both of the practicable passes
are closely watched by the enemys steamers, the Brooklyn and the
Powhatan, heavily armed and fast ships.
	I put my ship nuder steam yesterday and ran up the river a short
distance to test the working of my gun carriages, all of which I have
had made in this city. The experiments were satisfactory. I regret
to add, however, that I do not think the speed of the ship will exceed
	or at most 10 knots. Her battery, water, provisions, and fuel give
her a draft of about 13 feet, Which is a little deeper than she ha~ been
in the habit of running. Her armament consists of one 8-inch pivot
gun and four 32-pounders of 27 cwt. each; her crew of 92, exclusive of
officers; all told, 114. I have an excellent set of men on board, though
they are nearly all green, and it will require some little practice and
drilling at the guns to enable them to handle them creditably.
	Should I be fortunate to reach the high seas, you may rely upon my
implicit obedience of your instructions to do the enemy~s commerce
the greatest injury in the shortest time.
	I will, before sailing, transmit you a complete muster roll of the ship,
and also the dictionary you speak of; to enable me to conceal my mean-
ing from the enemy should my dispatches fall into his hands.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	LRAPHAEL SEMMES,
	Hon. S. R. MALLORY,	Commander, C. S. Navy.]
Secretary of the Navy, Richmond, Va.




Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to the Secretary of
the Navy of the Confederate States, relative to a method for correspondence with the
Department.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
New Orleans, June16, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to enclose herewith a copy of Reids English
Dictionary, a duplicate of which I retain for the purpose mentioned in
your letter of instructions of the 7th instant. I have not been able to
find in the city of New Orleans Cobbs Miniature Lexicon, or any other
suitable dictionary, with but a single column on a page. This need
make no difference, however. In my communications to the Depart-
ineiit, should I have occasion to refer to a word in the copy sent, I will
designate the first column on the page A, and the second column B.
Thus, if I wish to nse the word ~ l)risoner, my reference to it would be
thus: 323, B, 15, the first number referring to the page, the letter to

Not found

Page 616

616 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

the c,olumu, and the second number to the number of the word from
the top of the column.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
Hon. S. R. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy, Richmond, Va.



Order of Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to the chief pilot at
the mouth of the Mississippi River, to repair on board that vesseL

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Head of the Passes, June 22, 1861.
	SIR:	This is to command you to repair on board this ship, with three
or four of the most experienced, pilots of the bar. I am surprised to
learn that an unwillingness has been expressed by some of the pilots
of your association to come on board the Samter, and my purpose is to
test the fact of such disloyalty to the Confederate States. If any man
disobeys this summons, I will not only have his branch taken away
from him, but I will send an armed force and arrest and bring him on
board.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]



Report of Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, of the readiness of that
vessel to run the blockade at the first opportunity.

C.	S.S. SUMTER,
Head of the Passes, June 23, 1861.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform the Department that I am anchored
off the Head of the Passes, within 12 miles of either bar, in readiness
to avail myself of any opportunity that may offer of running the block-
ade. During the two days that I have beeii here, the bars have been
closely watched by the enemys ships, the Brooklyn and the Powhatan,
with occasionally a third, and sometimes a fourth vessel of smaller size.
The Brooklyn and Powhatan lie almost constantly at their anchors,
within a few hundred yards of the bars which they guard respectively.
Ii have a pilot constantly on board,but the pilots all agree that it is
impossible for me to run either bar at night, unless there be a moon, as
all the buoys and marks have been removed, and there is no guide
whatever, other than the ripple and the breaker. In the meantime,
opportunities will doubtless occur to enable me, with the exercise of
patience and vigilance, to gain the high seas, as changes will occur in
the blockading vessels from time to time, and they will probably be
tempted, now and then, upon sight of a sail to chase off.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
Hon. S. R. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy, Richmond, Va

Page 617

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	4317

Report of Commander Semmes, C S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, that by his order the
lights at Pass ~ lOutre and South Pass have been extinguished.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Head of the Passes, Mississippi River, June 24, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that I found, U~Oll dropping down
to my present anchorage, that the lights at Pass ~ lOutre arid South
Pass were still being exhibited, the light at the Southwest Pass being
the only one which had been extinguished.
	As no vessels of commerce can, by reason of the rigid blockade
maintained by the enemy, obtain egress from the port, the exhibition
of lights at any of the passes can only be of service to the latter, and
to hi~n they would be of great rise.
	It is highly important, with reference to the egress of the vessels of
war and privateers of the Confederate States, that the enemy should
have no facilities afforded him of promptly regaining his station in
the event of his having chased off or sought an offing for the
safety of his vessels during bad weather. I have therefore caused
both the Pass h lOutre and South Pass lights to be extinguished.
At the former light I destroyed the oil remaining on hand, amounting
to about 120 gallons, as that light was under the guns of the enemys
ship Brooklyn, and I was obliged to operate in a small boat. The oil
from the South Pass I have removed. This oil and the lamps removed
from both light-houses I have caused to be carefully stored at the
light-house at the Head of the Passes. The lamps I have had packed
in separate boxes and marked with the names of the respective lights,
so that they may be readily identified when you shall again have occa-
sion to use them.
	I trust the bureau will see in this assumption of authority on my
part a desre only to do what I thought best for the public service
under the circumstances, and that it will approve my course.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
	Commander E. FARRAND,
Chief of Light-House Bureau, Richmond, Va.



Letter from Commander Semmes, C, S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Lieutenant
Fry, C. S. Navy, light.house inspector, New Orleans, regarding extinguishment of the
lights at Pass a lOutre and South Pass.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Head of the Pa8ses, June 25, 1861.
	SIR: I have deemed it important to extinguish the lights at Pass
~	lOntre and South Pass, the light at the Southwest Pass having
been discontinued some time since.
	The light-house at Pass ~i lOutre being under the guns of the Brook-
lyn, I was compelled to operate in a small boat and by surprise, and it
became necessary, consequently, to destroy the oil at that place. The
oil was removed from the South Pass, a portion of it retained on board
this ship, and the remainder of it deposited with the keeper at the
I lead of the Passes, with whom were, deposited also the lamps front
both light-houses, together with soume of the flashing lenses and clock
machinery. These things have been boxed and marked with the name

Page 618

618 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

of their respective lights so that you may readily identify them when
you shall again have occasion to nse them.
	I have reported the eNtilguishment of these lights to the Light-
House Bnrean. I send you receipts enclosed for all these things.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
	Lieutenant Jos. FRY, C. S. Navy,
Light-House inspector, Fourth District, New Orleans, La.


Report of Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, of continual watchful
ness for an opportunity to pass the blockade.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Head of the Passes, lliliississijppi River, June 30, 1861.
	Sin: I have the honor to inform the Department that I am still at
my anchors at the Head of the Passes, the enemy closely investing
both of the practicable outlets. At Pass ~t lOutre there are three
shipsthe Brooklyn and another propeller and a large side-wheel
steamer; and at the Southwest Pass there is the Powhatan, lying
within half a mile of the bar and not stirring an inch from her anchors
night or day. I am only surprised that the Brooklyn does not come up
to this anchorage, which she might easily do, as there is water enough
and no military precautions whatever have been taken to hold it, and
thus eff~ctnahly seal all the passes of the river by her presence alone,
which would enable the enemy to withdraw the remainder of his block-
adirig force for use elsewhere. With the assistance of the Jackson and
MeRac (neither of which has yet dropped down) 1 could probably hold
my position here nntil an opportunity offered of my getting to sea. I
shall watch diligently for such an opportunity, and have no doubt that
sooner or later it will present itself.
	I found upon dropping down to this point that the lights at Pass
~ lOutre and South Pass had been strangely overlooked and that they
were still burning. I caused them both to be extinguished, so that if
bad weather should set in th~ blockading vessels will have nothing to
hold on to and will be obliged to make an offing. At present the
worst feature of the blockade of I~ass ?i lOutre is that the Brooklyn has
the speed of me, so that even though I should run the bar 1 could not
hope to escape her unless I surprised her, which, with her close watch
of the bar, at anchor near to, both night and day, it will be exceedingly
difficult to do.
	I should be quite willing to try speed with the Powhatan, if I could
hope to run the gauntlet of her guns without being crippled, but
unfortunately, with all the buoys and other marks removed, this is a
perfectly blind bar, except by daylight. In the meantime, I am drill-
ing my green crew to a proper use of the great guns and small arms.
With the exception of a diarrhea, which is prevailing to some extent,
brought on by too free a use of the river water in the excessive heats
which prevail, the crew continues healthy.
	Masters Mate Isard left the ship a few days before I dropped down,
on leave for a short time from the first lieutenant, and has not since
returned on board, though he seimt me his resignation. This paper, of
course, I could not accept until he should return and report himself.
I have therefore caused him to be marked on the rolls as absent with-
oat leave

Page 619

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	61~

	Paymasters Clerk Hutchinson, having been surveyed by the surgeon
and reported unfit for duty, I have taken the liberty of discharging
him without waiting for your authority, as the delay which would
necessarily ensue from my reporting his case might render it necessary
for me to carry a useless person to sea with me.
	I enclose the proceedings of the first summary court-martial which I
have had occasion to order.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commanaer, 0. 5. Navy.]
Hon. S. II. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy, Richmond, Va.



Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to the governor
of Cienfuegos, Cuba, announcing the arrival of that vessel at that port, with seven prizes
of war.
C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Cienfuegos, Island of Cuba, July 6, 1861.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform your Excellency of my arrival at
the port of Cienfuegos, with seven prizes of war. These vessels are
the l)rigantilles Cuba, Macbias, Ben Dunning, Albert Adams, and Naiad,
and barks West Wind and Lewis (Louisa) Kilhain, property of citizens
of time United Staics, which States, as your Excellency is aware, are
waging an unjust and aggressive war upon the Confederate States,
which I have the honor, with this ship under my command, to repre-
sent. I have sought a port of Cuba with these prizes with the expec-
tation that Spain will extend to cruisers of the Confederate States the
same friendly reception that in similar circumstances she would extend
to the cruisers of the enemy; in other words, that she will permit me to
leave the cal)tured vessels within her junsdiction until they can be
adjudicated by a court of admiralty of the Confederate States. As a
people, maintaining a goverumnent de facto, and not only holding the
enemny in check, but gaining advantages over him, we are entitled to
all the rights of belligerents, and I confidently rely upon the friendly
disposition of Spain, who is our imear neighbor in the ]flo 4 impor-
tant of her colonial possessions, to receive us with equal and even-
handed justice, if not with the sympathy which our unity of interest
and policy with regard to an important social and industrial institu-
tion are so well calculated to inspire. A rule which would exclude our
prizes from her ports during the war, although it should be applied in
terms equally to the enemy, would not, I respectfully suggest, be an
cquitable or just rule. The basis of such a rule, as indeed of all the
conduct of a neutral during war, is equal and impartial justice to all
the belligerents, and this should be a substantial and practical justice,
and not exist in delusive or deceptive terms merely.
	Now, a little reflection will show your Excellency that the rule in
question can not be applied in the present war without operating great
injustice to the Confederate States. It is well known to your Excel-
lency tlmat the United States, being a manufacturing and commercial
people, while the Confederate States have been thus far almost wholly
an agricultural and planting people, the former had within their limits
and control at the commuencement of the war almost the whole naval
force of the old Government, amid that they have seized and 8p~uopri-
ated this force to themselves regardless of the just claims of the Con

Page 620

620 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.


federate States to a portion, and a large portion of it, as taxpayers
out of whose contributions it was created. The United States are
thus enabled to blockade all the important ports of the Confederate
States. In this condition of things, observe the practical working of
the rule which I am discussing. It must be admitted that we have
equal belligerent rights with the enemy. One of the most important
of these rights in a war against a commercial people is that which I
have just exercised, of capturing his property upon the high seas.
But how tire the Confederate States to enjoy to its full extent the ben-
efit of this right, if their cruisers are not permitted to enter neutral
ports with their prizes, and retain theni there in safe custody until
they can be condemned and disposed of? They can not send them to
their own ports for the reasons already stated. Except for the pur-
pose of destruction, therefore, their right of capture would be entirely
defeated by the adoption of the rule in question, whilst the enemy
would suffer no inconvenience from it, as all his ports are open to him.
I take it for granted that Spain will not think of acting upon so unjust
and unequal a rule. But another question arises, indeed has already
arisen, in the cases of some of the very captures which I have brought
into port. The cargoes of several of the vessels are claimed, as
appears by certificates found among the pai)ers, as Spanish property.
This fact can not of course be verified, except by a judicial proceeding
in the prize courts of the Confederate States. But whilst this fact is
being determined, what is to be done with the property? I have the
right to destroy the vessels but not the cargoes, in case the latter
should prove to be, as claimed, Spanish property, but how am 1 to
destroy the former and not the latter? I can not, before sentence,
unlade the cargoes and deliver them to the claimants, for I do not know
that the claims will be sustained, and I can not destroy them, for 1 do
not know that the claims will not be sustained.
	Indeed, one of the motives which influenced me in seeking a Spanish
port was the fact that these cargoes were claimed by Spanish subjects,
whom I was desirous of putting to as little inconvenience as possible
in the unlading and reception of their property after sentence, should
it be restored to them.
	It will be for your Excellency to consider and act upon these grave
questions, touching alike the interests of both our governments.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SENMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
	His Excellency Don Josf DE LA POZUELA,
Governor of the City of Cienfuegos, Island of Cuba.


Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Selior Don Man-
ano Dias, Cienfuegos, Cuba, appointing him prize agent for the Confederate States.


C.	S. S. SUMTER,
At Sea, Off Cienfuegos, Cuba, July 6, 1861.
	SIR: You are hereby appointed prize agent for and in behalf of the
Confederate States of America of the following prizes, to wit: The
Cuba, Jliachias, Ben Dunning, Albert Adams, Naiad, West Wind, and
Lewis (Louisa) Kilham, amid their cargoes, until the same can be adju-
dicated by the prize courts of the Confederate States and disposed of
by the proper authorities. You will take the necessary steps for th

Page 621

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	621

safe custody of these prizes, and you will not permit anything to be
removed from or disturbed on board of them.
	You will be pleased also to take the examinations of the master and
mate of each of tliese vessels, before a notary, touching the property
of the vessels and cargoes, and making a copy thereof to be retained
in your own possession. You will send by some safe conveyance the
originals, a(ldressed to the judge of the Confederate States district
court, New Orleans.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
	[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
	Sefior DON MARIANO DIAS,	Commander, C. S. Navy.]
Cienfuegos, Cuba.



Instructions from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. 8. S. Sumter, to Midshipman
Hudgins, C. S. Navy, commanding prize brigantine Cuba.


C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Cienfuegos, Cuba, July 7, 1861.
	SIR: Upon your arrival at this place you will put the master, mate,
and crew of the brigantine Cuba under parole not to serve against the
Confederate States during the present war, and release them. You will
then deliver the brigantine to the governor for safe custody until the
orders of the captain-general can be known in regard to her. I regret
much that you were not able to arrive in time to rejoin this ship, and
you must exercise your judgment as to the mode in which you shall
regain your country.
	You will, no doubt, be able to raise sufficient funds for transporting
yourself and the four men who are with you to some point in the Con-
federate States upon a bill which you are hereby authorized to draw
upon the Secretary of the Navy. Upon your arrival within our terri-
tory you will report yourself to the Secretary of the Navy. Your bag-
gage has been sent you by the pilot.
I have the honor to be, etc.,	[RAPHAEL SEMMES,

Commander, C. S. Navy. I
	Midshipman A. G. HUDGINS, C. S. Navy.



Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to the governor of
Cura9ao, asking an explanation of the exclusion of Confederate States vessels from the port of
Santa Ana.
C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Off St. Annes, [Santa Ana,] Cura9ao, July 17, 18(11.
	Sin: I was surprised to receive by the pilot this morning a message
from your Excellency, to the effect that this ship could not be permitted
to enter the harbor unless she was in distress, as your Excellency had
received orders from his Government not to admit vessels of war of the
Confederate States of America to the hospitality of the ports under
your Excellencys command. I most respectfully suggest that there
must be some mistake here, and I have sent to you the bearer, Lieu-
tenant Chapman, C. S. Navy, for the purpose of an explanation. Your
Excellency must be under some misapprehension as to the character o

Page 622

622 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

this vessel. She is a ship of war, duly commissioned by the Govern-
ment of the Confederate States, which States have been recognized as
belligerents in the present war by all the leading powers of Europe,
viz, Great Britain, Fra~nce, Spain, etc., as your Excellency must be
aware. it is true that these powers have prohibited both belligerents
from bringing prizes into their several jurisdictions, but no one of them
has made a distinction either between the prizes or the cruisers them-
selves of the two belligerents, the cruisers of both governments being
admitted to the hospitalities of the ports of all these great powers on
terms of perfect equality. Am I to understand from your Excellency
that Holland has adopted a different rule, and that she not only
excludes the prizes, but the ships of war themselves, of the Confederate
States~ And this at the same time that she admits the cruisers of the
United States, thus departing from her neutiality in this war, ignoring
the Confederate States as belligerents, and aiding and assisting their
enemy. If this be the position which Holland has assumed in this
contest, I pray your Excellency to be kind enough to say as much to
me in writing.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
	[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
	Governor CROL,	Commander, C. S. Navy.]
St. Annes, [Santa Ana,] Cura9ao.


Report of Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, of the cruise of that
vessel from New Orleans to Puerto Cabdllo, Venezuela.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Puerto Cabello, Venezuela, July 26, 1861.
	Sin:	Having captured a schooner of light draft, which, with her
cargo, I estimate to be worth some $25,000, and being denied the priv-
ilege of leaving her at this port until she could be adjudicated, I have
resolved to dispatch her for New Orleans with a prize crew, with the
hope that she may be able to elude the vigilance of the blockading
squadron, and run into some one of the shoal passes to the westward
of the mouths of the Mississippi, as Barataria, Berwick Bay, etc. In
great haste I avail myself of this opportunity to send you my first
dispatch since leaving New Orleans. I can do no more, for want of
time, than merely enumerate events. We ran the blockade of Pass ~
1Outre by the Brooklyn on the 30th of June, the Brooklyn giving us
chase. On the morning of July 3 I doubled Cape [San] Antonio, the
western extremity of Cuba, and on the same day captured off the Isle
of Pines the American ship Golden Rocket, belonging to parties in
Bangor, Me. She was a fine ship of 600 tons and worth between
$30~000 and $40,000. I burned her. On the next day, the 4th, I cap-
tured the brigantines Cuba and ]Lfaehias, both of Maine also. They
were laden with sugrirs. I sent them to Cienfuegos, Cuba. On the
5th of July I captured the brigs Hen Dunning and Albert Adams, owned
in New York and Massachusetts. They were laden also with sugars.
1 sent tlmem to Cienfuegos. On the next day, the 6th, I captured the
barks West Wind and Louisa Kilkam and the brig Naiad, all owned
in New York, Rhode Island, and Massachusetts, and laden with sugars.
I sent them also to Cienfuegos. On the same day I ran into Cienfue-
gos myself, reported my cal)turcs to the authorities, and asked leave
to have them remain until they could be adjudicated. The Govern

Page 623

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	623

ment took them in charge until the home Government should give
directions concerning them. I coaled ship and sailed again on the 7th.
On the 17th I arrived at the island of Cura~ao, without having fallen
in with anything. I coaled again here and sailed on the 24th. On
the morning of the 25th I captured, off La Guayra, the schooner A bby
Bradford, which is the vessel by which I send this dispatch.
	I do not deem it prudent to speak of my future movements, lest my
dispatch should fall into the hands of the enemy.
	We are all well and doing a pretty fair business, having made nine
captures in twenty-six days.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander C
	Hon. S. R. MALLORY,	, . S. Navy.]
Secretary of the Navy, Richmond, Va.


Report of Commander Semmes, 0. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to the governor of
Puerto Cabello, requesting permission to leave the prize Abby Bradford in that port.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Puerto Gabello, July 26, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform your Excellency of my arrival at this
port in this ship, under my command, and with the prize schooner Abby
Bradford, captured by me about 70 miles to the northward arid east.
ward. The Abby Bradford is the property of citizens of the United
States, with which States, as your Excellency is aware, the Confeder-
ate States, which I have the honor to represent, are at war; and the
cargo would appear to belong also to citizens of the United States, who
have shipped it on consignment to a house in Puerto Cabello. Should
any claim be given, however, for the cargo, or any part of it, the ques-
tion of ownership can only be decided by the prize courts of the Con-
federate States. In the meantime, I have the honor to request that
your Excellency will permit me to leave this prize vessel, with her
cargo, in the port of Puerto Cabello until the question of prize can be
adjudicated by the proper tribunal of my country. This will be a con-
venience to all parties, as well to any citizens of Venezuela who may
have an interest in the cargo, as to the captors, who have also valuable
interests to protect. In making this request I do not propose that the
Venezuelan Government shall depart from a strict neutrality between
the belligerents, as the same rule it applies to us it can give the other
party the benefit of also. In other words, with the most scrupulous
regard for her neutrality she may admit both belligerents to bring
their prizes into her waters, and of this neither belligerent can com
plain, since whatever favor is extended to its enemy is exten(led also
to itself.
	I have an additional and cogent reason for making this request, and
that is that the rule of exclusion, although it might be applied in terms
to both belligerents, would not operate equally and justly upon them
both. It is well known to your Excellency that the Northerii United
States (which are now making an aggressive and unjust war upon the
Confederate States, denying to the latter the right of self-government,
which is fundamental in all republics, and invading their territories for
the purpose of subjugation) are manufacturing and commercial States,
whilst the Confederate States have been thus far agricultural and
planting States, and that, as a consequence of this difference of pu

Page 624

624 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.


suits, the former States had in their possession at the comniencernent
of this war almost all the naval force of the old Government, which they
have not hesitated to seize and appropriate to their own use, although
a large proportion of it belonged of right to the Confederate States,
which had been taxed to create it. By means of this naval force, dis-
honestly seized as aforesaid, the enemy has been enabled to blockade
all the important ports of the Confederate States. This blockade nec-
essarily shuts out the cruisers of the Confederate States from their own
ports, and if foreign powers shut them out also they can make no other
use of their prizes than to destroy them. Thus your Excellency sees
that under the ru]e of exclusion the enemy could enjoy his right of cap-
ture to its full extent, his own ports being all open to him, whilst the
cruisers of the Confederate States could enjoy it 8ub modo only, that is,
for the purpose of destruction. A rule which would produce such
eikcts as this is not an equal or a just rule (although it might in terms
be extended to both parties), and as equality and justice are of the
essence of neutrality, I take it for granted that Venezuela will not
adopt it.
	On the other hand, the rule admitting both parties alike with their
prizes iuto your ports, until the prize courts of the respective countries
can have time to adjudicate the cases as they arrive, would work equal
and exact justice to both, and this is no more than the Confederate
States demand.
	With reference to the present case, as the cargo consists chiefly of
provisions, which are perishable, I would ask leave to sell them at
public aution for the benefit of whom it may concern, depositing the
proceeds with a suitable prize agent, until the decision of the court can
be known. With regard to the vessel, I request that she may remain
in the custody of the same agent until condemned and sold.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
His Excellency the GOVERNOR AND MILITARY COMMANDANT OF
PUERTO CABELLO.


Order of Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Prize Master Ruhi,
to take charge of the schooner Abby Bradford and proceed with her to New Orleans.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Off Puerto Cabello, Venezuela, July 26, 1861.
	SIR:	You will take charge of the prize schooner Abby Bradford and
proceed with her to New Orleans, making the land to the westward of
the Passes of the Mississippi, and endeavoring to run into Barataria
Bay, Berwick Bay, or some of the other small inlets. Upon your
arrival you will proceed to the city of New Orleans in person and report
yourself to Commodore Rousseau for orders. You will take especial
care of the accompanying package of papers, as they are the papers of
the captured schooner, and you will deliver them, with the seals
unbroken, to the judge of the prize court, Judge MoYse. You will batten
down your hatches, and see that no part of the carbo is touched during
the voyage, and you will deliver both vessel and cargo to the proper
law officers in the condition in which you find them, as near as possible~
Respectfully, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
Quartermaster and Prize Master EUGENE RUHL

Page 625

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	G25

Instructions of Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Midshipman
Hicks, C. S. Navy, regarding the disposition of the prize bark Joseph Maxwell.


C.	S. S. SUMTER, At Sea, July 27, 1861.
	SIR: You will take charge of the prize bark Jo8eph Maxwell and
proceed with her to some port on the south side of the island of Cuba,
say St. Jago [Santiago], Trinidad, or Cienfuegos. 1 think it would be
safest for you to go into Cienfuegos, as the enemy, from the very fact
of our having been there recently, will scarcely be on the lookout for
us there a second time. Upon your arrival you will inform the gov-
ernor or commandant of the port of the fact; state to him that your
vessel is the prize of a ship of war, and not of a privateer, and ask
leave to have her remain in port in charge of a prize agent, until she
can be adjudicated by a prize court of the Confederate States. Should
he grant you this request you will, if you go into Cienfuegos, put the
vessel in charge of Mr. Dias, our agent for the other prizes, but should
you go into either of the other ports you will appoint some reliable
person to take charge of the prize, but without power to sell until
further orders, taking from him a bond with surety for the proper per-
formance of his duty. Should the governor decline to let the prize
remain, you will store the cargo with some responsible person, taking
his receipt therefor, and then take the ship outside the port beyond
the marine league and burn hei. Should you need funds for the
unlading and storage of the cargo you are authorized to sell so much
of it as may be necessary for this purpose.
	You will then endeavor to make the best of your way to the Con-
federate States with your crew, and report yourself to the Secretary
of the Navy. You will keep in close custody the accompanying sealed
package of papers, being the papers of the captured vessel, and
deliver them in person to the judge of the admiralty court in New
Orleans. The paymaster will hand you the sum of $100, and you are
authorized to draw on the Secretary of the Navy for such further sum
as you may need to defray the expenses of yourself and crew to the
Confederate States.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, 0. 5. Navy.]
	Midshipman W. A. HICKS, C. S. Navy.



Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Judge Mo~se, of
the C. S. prize court, New Orleans, transmitting papers captured on board prize schooner
Abby Hradford.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Off Puerto Cabello, Venezuela, July 26, 1861.
	SIR: I send you enclosed the papers captured on board the prize
schooner Abby Bradford. The cargo is, no doubt, the property of the
shippers in New York. Indeed, a gentleman here, representing him-
self as having an interest in the house of the consignees, admitted to
me that such was the fact, and made a proposition to me, on the part
of that house, to purchase the cargo.
	Among other papers, I would call your special attention to an ac-
count stated,~ between the shipper and the consignee, in which no one
item of this cargo is charged against the consignee, which it must have
	123A	4

Page 626

626 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.


been if the cargo had been purchased on his account. I have bundles
of other prize papers, but dare not trust them by this vessel.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy]
Judge E. WARREN MoisE,
j\T~~ Orleans, La.




Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to 3udge Moise, of
the C. S. prize court, New Orleans, transmitting papers captured on board prize bark 3oseph
Maxwell.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
At Sea, July 27, 1861.
	Sm:	I send to you the papers of the prize bark Joseph Maxwell, cap-
tured by me on the 27th of July, about 8 miles from the iiearest land,
abreast o~ Puerto Cabello, Venezuela. The ship is owned by a house in
Philadelphia, and the cargo appears to be the joint property (see state-
ment of master, enclosed) of that house, and the house of Boulton, in
La Guayra and Puerto Cabello; the ship and one-half the cargo, at
least, is therefore condemnable.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
Judge E. WARREN MOISE,

New Orleans, La.




Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Mr. Van Lans-
berge, requesting the apprehension of two deserters from that vessel.


C. S. S. SUMTER,
Surinam, August 30, 1861.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform your Excellency that I am detained
here by the desertion of two of my crew, who left the market boat this
morning. These men being stewards, and having been on shore at the
market every morning, are well known in the city, and I have no doubt
could easily be arrested by the police. I rely confidently upon the
good faith and energy of the Government in this matter. One of these
deserters being my personal servant, has no doubt been tampered with
by some unscrupulous person, possibly some resident or shipmaster of
the United States, and if search be made of such houses as may be sus-
pected, and of the United States vessels in the harbor, 1 have no doubt
your Excellency will be enabled to apprehend and hand over to me
these deserters.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
His Excelle~ncy Mr. VAN LANSuERGE

Page 627

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	627

Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumtef, to the procurer-gen-
era] of the colony of Surinam, Paramaribo, requesting that the deserters from that vessel be
retained in custody.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Mouth of the River Surinctm, August 31, 1861.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you that two of the crew of this
ship deserted from her yesterday morning in the city of Paramaribo,
but as important interests reqnire that I should proceed to sea, I will
not await further the result of the search which the authorities have
set on foot for them. May I request that these men, when arrested,
may be detained in custody until I can come or send for them ~ The
negro is not only bound to service on board this ship but is also val-
uable private property, and if he come to the hands of the Government
will be reclaimable on this latter ground, as well as the former, by the
Government of the Confederate States.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. ~. Navy.]
Hon. J. W. GEFKEN,
Procurer- General, Colony of iSurinam, Paramaribo.


Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to the governor of
the Colony of Suriuam, Paramaribo, regarding the deserters from that vessel.


C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Mouth of the River Surinam, August 31, 1861.
	SIR:	Important interests require that I should proceed to sea. I will
not, therefore, longer await the result of the search which is being
made for the two deserters from this ship. In the meantime, however,
I have the honor to request that you will cause these men, wheu appre-
hended, to be confined, as I will probably touch at Surinam (or send
another vessel) at no distant day to demand them. The negro who
deserted, being a slave, is not only bound to service on board this ves-
sel, but he is also valuable private property, so recognized by the laws
of Holland and of the Confederate States, and as such subject to the
reclamation on other grounds than as a deserter.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
His Excellency R. F. VAN LANSBER~E,
Governor of the Colony of Surinam, Paramaribo.


Order of Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumt~er, to Lieutenant Evans,
C. S. Navy, to assume command of the prize brig 3oseph Park, and cruise in company with
the former vessel.

C. S. S. SUMTER,
At Sea, September25, 1861.
	SIR:	You will take charge of the prize brig Joseph Park, and cruise
in company with this vessel until further orders. I)uring the day you
will keep from 7 to 8 miles to the westward and to windward, and keep
a bright lookout from your topgallant yard for sails, signaling to u

Page 628

628 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.


such as you may descry. Toward evening every day you will draw iu
toward this vessel, so as to be within 3 or 4 miles of her at dark, and
during the night you will keep close company with her, to guard against
the possibility of separation. Should yon, however, be separated from
her by any accident, you will make the best of your way to latitude
80 N. and longitude 450 W., where you will await her a reasonable
time. Should you not loin her again, you will make the best of your
way to some port in the Confederate States.
I have the honor, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. k. Navy.]
	Lieutenant EVANS, C. S. Navy.




Detailed report of Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, of the move-
ments of that vessel from June 30 to November 9, 1861.


C.	S. S. SUMTER,
[Fort de France, Martinique, November 9, 1861.]
	SIR:	I had tile honor to address you briefly, and for the first time
since leaving the Confederate States, on the 27th of July last, on the
occasion of the sailing of the prize schooner Abby Bradford, from Puerto
Cabello for New Orleans. In that communication, written in great
haste, as the schooner was on the point of sailing, I had barely time to
enumerate the events that had then occurred, without attempting auy.
thing like a description of them; nor has any opportunity offered since
of my communicating with you until the present moment.
	After many vexatious delays in the city of New Orleans, incident to
fitting out a ship of war there for the first time, much of the work
required being new to the mechanics and many articles being difficult
to be procured, we were enabled to drop down the river to Forts St.
Philip and Jackson on the evening of the 18th of June. I anchored
here to put my ship in something like order, my crew being composed,
with two or three exceptions, of men taken entirely from the merchant
service, and ignorant therefore of all the military duties required of
them on board a ship of war. In the few days that we lay at this
anchorage we readjusted the stowage of the ship, set up our rigging,
rove running gear, stationed and quartered the men, and exercised
them frequently at the great guns and with small arms. Major Dumi-
can, the commanding officer of the forts, was kind enough to loan me
a 24-pounder howitzer, with a supply of ammunition, for use on my
upper deck against any expedition of boats that the enemy might be
disposed to send against us when we should drop down in his vicinity.
Major Duncan also kindly kept me advised of the movements of the
enemys ships off the mouths of the river by means of the telegraph,
which he had nnd~r his control. On the 20th of June Governor Moore,
of Louisiana, Hon. John Shidell, and other distinguished gentlemen hav-
ing visited the forts, they were invited on board and visited this ship.
	Just at nightfall of the 21st, I received the following dispatch from
Major Duncans adjutant:
	CAPTAIN:	I am desired by the commanding officer to state that the Ivy reports
that the Powhat~in has left in pursuit of two ships, and that he has received a tele-
graphic dispatch from Pass a lOutre, to the effect that a boat from the Brooklyn
had put into the river and was making for the telegraphic station, where she was
expected to arrive in a few minutee

Page 629

	OPERATIONS OF THE C1lUISJ~RSCONFEDERATE.	029

	Upon receipt of this intelligence I ordered steam to be gotten up
and in half an hour afterwards I was steaming down to the Head of the
Passes, where I anchored at about 10:30 p. m. I immediately dis-
patched a lieutenant on shore, both to the light-house at the Head of
the Passes and to the telegraph station, to endeavor to procure a
pilot, hoping to run out during the night and before the Powhatan
should return to her station. But there was no pilot to be had, and I
learned the next day that the Powhatan had returned to her station
after an absence of only a few hours. On the next morning I
could plainly reconnoiter the blockading vessels at both passes with
my glass. The Brooklyn and Powhatan, both of them assisted occa-
sionally by other vessels, kept watch and ward faithfully, the former
at Pass ~ LOutre and the latter at the Southwest Pass. The Pow-
hatan, in particular, was anchored close under the bar, and scarcely
ever stirred from her position.
	To my astonishment I learned here that the lights at Pass ~ lOutre
and South Pass had both been kept burning; of course this could only
be for the convenience of the enemy. I therefore ordered them to be
extinguished. At the former station I was obliged to destroy the oil,
as the light was under the guns of the Brooklyn, and I was compelled
to operate in a small boat. I found the pilots, too, in a quasi state of
rebellion, owing to their fears. I was obliged to send an officer and
arrest several of them, and bring them on board; or rat her they came
on board peaceably with the officer without the necessity of an arrest,
npon learning his object. 1 required them to keep one of their number
always on board of me, which they did, relieving each other every few
days. I remained at my anchors at the head of the Passes, occasionally
shifting my berth, for the space of nine days, patiently watching the
enemy and seeking an opportunity of running the blockade. But this
time was by no means lost, as I needed all of it for drilling and dis-
cij)lining my very green crew. The men were exercised at the guns
every day, and as the nights grew dark for the want of the moon I
caused guard or scout boats to be seiit out, one in each of the passes,
to prevent being surprised by the boats of the enemy. Although we
were now in the latter end of June, and had gathered our crew so
recently from the streets of New Orleans, the health of the ship con-
tinued good.
	Finally, on Sunday morning, the 30th of June, it having been reported
to me that the Brooklyn was absent from her station, I caused steam to
be gotten up, got underway, and ran down toward the Pass. As we
approached the mouth of the river we discovered the Brooklyn with
our glasses, standing back under steam and sail to regain her station,
and it was for some time a little doubtful whether we could pass the
bar before she caine up. To add to my perplexity, the pilot protested
that he knew only the bar of the Southwest Pass, ai~d could not
undertake to run me out of Pass ?L lOutre. I continued on, however,
hoisting a signal for a pilot at the fore. As luck would have it, a pilot
happened to be present at the pilots station a little above the light-
house, and as we ran by it the gallant fellow pushed aboard in his
boat, and in fifteen minutes afterwards he had us outside the bar. We
discharged him in great haste and made all sail and steam, the Brook-
lyn being in pursuit about 4 miles distant. The imext few hours were
of course very anxious ones for me, as the Brooklyn had the reputation
of great speed, and our relative powers were to be tested. Owing to the
frothing of our boilers the emiemny at one time gained on us, but this
having subsided, we soon began to drop him. gradually under the join

Page 630

630 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

influence of sail and steam, and by 3:30 Commander Poor gave up the
chase. As he bore up, I sent my men into the rigging and we gave
three hearty cheers for the flag of the Confederate States, thins for the
first time thrown to the breeze on the high seas by a ship of war. The
evening was beautiful and calm and we made rapid way over the water,
experiencing a sensation of great relief after our long confinement in
the river.
	On the morning of the 3d, before daylight, we made the light on Cape
[San] Antonio, west end of Cuba. Late in the afternoon of this day,
near the Isle of Pines, we fell in with and captured our first prize, the
ship Golden Rocket, of Bangor, Me., of 690 tons burden. The register
of this ship showed the entire property to be in citizens of the United
States, and, as she had no cargo on board, I burned her a few hours
after her capture, having first removed on board this ship a few pro-
visions, sails, etc. You may imagine that, as the flames which con-
sumed this first holocaust laid upon the altar of our country upon the
high seas leaped into the air and shed their lurid glare upon the waters
around, we were much affected by so gratifying and at the same time
so melancholy a spectacle. The next day, which was the 4th of July
(and which I did not celebrate as we were wont to do in former years
on board ships of war of the old service, not because the day itself
was less dear to us on account of its historical associations, but because
it reminded us of the want of faith of a people with whom we had
stood side by side in the great straggle of 1776, and with whom we
were now at war to vindicate the identical principle of self-government
involved in that contest), we captured the brigantines Cuba and Machias,
both of the State of Maine and the property of citizens of the United
States. As both these vessels had cargoes on board that were docu.
mented as neutral property, I could not destroy them, but sent them
into the port of Cienfuegos, whence they had sailed and where the car-
goes were said to belong. I gave a tow to one of these vessels, and as
I approached the light of Cienfuegos, on the evening of the 5th, we
descried two other sail in the S. E., distant some 8 or 9 miles. II
cast off my tow and gave chase, and soon came up with the brigs
Ben Dunning and Albert Adams, both of which, being property of citi-
zens of the United States, I captured. These vessels, like the two for-
mer, had recently come out of Cienfuegos, and their cargoes being in
the same category, I made the same disposition of them.
	I lay off and on the light during the night, intending to enter the
port with my prizes as soon after daylight the next morning as I could
proenre a pilot. A little after sunrise the next morning, and whilst I
was still waiting off the port with a signal for a pilot flying, the barks
West Wind and Louisa Kitham and the brigantine Naiad came out of
the port, in full view of me, and stood out to sea. I iaade no movement
toward these vessels until the one which remained, the nearest to the
land was distant from it some 5 miles. I then put my ship nuder steam
(the pilot having boarded me in the meantime) and captured them all.
My other prizes (except the Cuba) having come up to me about 1 oclock
p. in., I sent all these vessels into the port and followed them myself.
As I passed the fort, situated a short distance within the harbor, a
couple of muskets were fired therefrom, and I was hailed and directed
to anchor, which I did. I sent a lieutenant on shore to demand an
explanation of the commandant, and was informed that he, the com-
mandant, never having seen our flag before, did not know what flag it
was, and that he had orders to stop all vessels of war or otherwise
until their flags could be distinguished. The commandant called o

Page 631

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	631

board himself in the evening to say that he had the governors orders
to permit me to proceed to the town, if I desired to do so.
	The accompanying letter, marked A, addressed by me to the gov-
ernor, informing him of my arrival; his reply thereto, marked B; his
receipt to me for my prizes, marked C; and my appointment of a prize
agent, marked D, will give you detailed information of the disposition
which was made of the prizes. I was treated with hospitality during
the short time I remained in the fort, and was permitted to refresh my
crew, and coal and water ship. From what I saw and learned here from
several distinguished Cubans, I have no doubt that this island sympa-
thizes with us warmly in our struggle. The prize brigantine Cuba not
having arrived when I was ready for sea, I left for the prize master,
Midshipman iludgins (who had a prize crew of four men with him), a
letter of instructions of which the annexed paper, marked E, is a copy,
and on the evening of the 7th I again got underway and passed out of
the port. It was my intention to make my way to the eastward as far
as the coast of Brazil, and cruise in those waters for a few weeks, and
in pursuance of this intention I shaped my course for the island of
Barbados, intending to coal at that place as a convenient place of
departure for my new cruising ground; but after passing the island of
Jamaica, I found the trade winds so freshthey blowing half a gale
and directly aheadthat it would be impossible for me to reach Bar-
bados before exhausting my fuel. And it was now that I painfully
experienced the only defect of my ship, viz, her inability to carry a
sufficient supply of fuel to enable her to make a run of any distance,
between eight and nine days being the most that she could be kept
under steam. It is true I had fitted her for cruising, independently of
her steam power, but the difficulty was to pass from one cruising
ground to another, and have sufficient fuel left for chasing, or the emer-
gency of being chased. I have since remedied this difficulty in part,
though not to the extent I could desire. While at Surinamn (of which
I will speak again presently) I landed my two after water tanks and
converted the space thus made vacant into an additional coal bunker.
This gave me capacity for a short two days supply more, so that now,
when 1 am quite fall, I have about eleven days of fuel on board.
	Finding, as I have said, that I could not make Barbados, I bore up
on the fifth day out for Cura~ao, uncoupling the propeller and putting
the ship under sail for a part of the way to economize fuel. I arrived
off St. Annes [Santa Ana], Cnra9ao, on the 16th of July, after night-
fall, and having fired a gun was soon afterwards boarded by the pilot,
who is at the same time harbor master. Having been informed of the
character of the vessel, and of my desire to enter the port, the pilot
promised to return at daylight next mornimig and take me in. I accord-
ingly stood in, as by appointment, at daylight, and was astonished to
receive from the pilot, who soon afterwards came on board, a message
from the governor .to the effect that he, the governor, was very sorry,
but that he could not permit me to enter the port, he having instruc-
tions to this effect from the home Government. Feeling sure either
that some misrepresentation had been made to the governor of our
character, or that he had blundered, I dispatched a lieutenant to him
with a communication, of which the paper F, annexed, is a copy, and
in the meantime lay off and on until I could receive his answer. This
was delayed some two or three hours to enable his Excellency to con-
voke and take the opinion of his council; but at length the lieutenant
returned with the verbal permission of the governor for me to enter,
and bringing with him the pilot. During the run from Cuba to Cura~a

Page 632

632 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

we saw but two sails. The first one we chased, and coming up with
her she proved to be a Spaniard. The second we did not chase, as
she was seen at a long distance, and it was blowing half a gale of wind,
with a very heavy sea on. We remained in Cura~ao seven days, refit-
ting and coaling and watering ship. Having sprung our fore-topmast,
I found it necessary to supply myself with a new one. I gave my men
the recreation here of a run on shore, and they all behaved well, and
returned on board iii due season, except one Northern-born lad named
John Orr, who, with Northern faith, deserted. The discovery was not
made until we were on the point of going to sea, and I did not detain
the ship on his account.
	I steamed out of the harbor on the evening of the 24th of July, and
the next morning, about 30 miles to the northeast of La Guayra, on
the coast of Venezuela, I chased and captured the schooner Abby Brad-
ford, from New York to La Guayra, with a cargo documented as belong-
ing to citizens of Puerto Cabello. I took her in tow and ran down to
Puerto Cabello with her, where I arrived the next morning. Having
anchored in the port, I dispatched a lieutenant to call on the governor
with a communication, of which G, annexed, is a copy. H, annexed,
is the governors reply. These letters will explain that I desired to
give the Venezuelan Government the saute option I had given that of
Spain, that is, to receive (on bond) or reject the cargoes of their own
citizens, when found in ships of the enemy and sent in to them. I left
Puerto Cabello with my prize as requested, in twenty-four hours after
having anchored, and as I was going out of the j)ort we descried a sail
running down the coast, some 8 or 9 miles to seaward. I gave chase,
and in something less than an hour I came up with and captured the
bark Joseph Maxwell, of Philadelphia, registered as propel-ty of citizens
of the United States, with a small remnant of a cargo on board (the
bulk of which she had landed at La Gnayra), belonging as-it appeared
to a joint house of trade in Philadelphia and La 0-nayra. As one-half
of this remnant of a cargo belonged to the partner in La Guayra (who
had a correspondent in Puerto Cabello) I raii again into the port, leav-
ing the prize outside, and dispatched the paymaster on shore with the
master of the Maxwell to the house interested, with an offer to sell to
it the ship and our half of the cargo, or if this did not suit to permit it
to unlade the portion of the cargo which belonged to it, for which pur-
pose I would either permit the ship to come in, or it (the house) might
send out a lighter as it preferred. Neither of these proposals was
accepted; on the contrary, the governor or military commandant (hav-
ing around him all the parties interested) made the extraordinary
assertion that the prize had been captured within a marine league of
the land, and that as the capture was invalid for this reason, he desired
that I would not take the prize out of his waters. Of course I paid no
attention to this unfounded claim, and upon the return of the officer
and the master of the captured vessel, I steamed out of the port, and
in a few hours afterwards dispatched both prizes, in charge of prize
crews, the Abby Bradford to New Orleans, and the Joseph Maxwell to
Cienfuegos. The letters of instruction to the respective prize masters,
herewith, marked I and K, will give you all the necessary information
on this subject. The Abby Bradford being of light draft, I hoped that
she might run into some one of the shallow entrances to the westward
of the Mississippi not watched by the blockading squadron, and the
Joseph Maxwell I sent to Cuba, as Spain had, as I thought from the
account which I had seen of her proclamation, made a distinction
between prizes made by men-of-war and those made by privateers

Page 633

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	633

permitting the former to enter and excluding the latter from her
ports.
	With reference to my proposition to sell the Maxwell before she had
been regularly condemned by a prize court, perhaps it is as well that
I should remark that this irregularity seemed forced upon me by the
course determined upon by the principal European powers, whose
example the smaller powers on both sides of the water were likely to
follow. As our own ports were blockaded, if I could not send my
prizes into neutral ports I could not sen(l them anywhere. But they
were nevertheless my prizes by right of lawful capture and firm posses-
sion. I might destroy them if I could not send them into port, and it
would seem, therefore, a fortiori, that I might sell them. The only
question which could arise upon such sale would be between the pur-
chaser and captors as to the sufficiency of the latters title. No ques-
tion could arise as to any neutral who was not the purchaser, and cer-
tainly none as between the captor and the enemy, for the possession of
the captor was a sufficient title as against him. The captors bill of
sale to the purchaser would be good against all the world except only
the enemy, in case the prize should come within his jurisdiction during
the war and before condemnation, in which case he might restore to the
original owner. But if a con(lemnation took place, or a peace ensued,
either event would quiet the purchasers title, so that, as Ii said before,
such a sale could raise no question between any other parties than the
captor and the purchaser, and if they could agree upon terms it was
nobody elses business. When I speak of the captor I mean, of course,
the Government of the Confederate States.
	Having dispatched the prizes as related, I turmied my head eastward
and ran the coast up to Trinidad, which island I entered on the 30th of
July. Here I landed the prisoners taken from the Joseph Maxwell.
Before setting them on shore I sent for the two mates into my cabin,
and told them I had brought them to this place to land them, because
it was a mail station at which I could receive late news from the United
States, and that it had been my intention, had the Government of the
United States dared to carry out its barbarous threat of treating the
prisoners of the privateer &#38; xvannah, who had fallen into fts hands, as
pirates, to retaliate on them and their crew by hanging man for man,
but that I was glad to inform them that this unpleasant duty had not,
as appeared by late intelligence, been imposed upon inc. The question
of my being permitted to coal here was submitted to the law officers of
the Crown by the governor, who entertained some doubts on the sub-
ject and decided in favor, filled up coal and watered
	my	and I	with
ship, and replaced my main yard, which had been carried away, by a
new one, and on the 5th of August I steamed out of the harbor. An
English seaman, named John Smith, whom we had shipped at Cura~ao,
ran away from us here.
	In pursuance of the intention already expressed, of makingmyway
to the coast of Brazil, I hoped to be able to run as far as Maranham, or
at least Para, before coaling again, but I discovered after being out
live or six days that this would be impossible, and on the 11th of
August, being in latitude 20 38 N. and longitude 470 48 W., having
only thirty hours of fuel left, I let the steam go down, put the ship
under sail, and bore up for Cayenne, in French Guiana, distant some
300 miles under our lee. I anchored in this port on the 15th, and on the
16th, finding that I could not procure coal, there being none in the
market, I got under way again and ran further down the coast to Sun-
nam, in Dutch Guiana, oft~ the bar of which uort I anchored on the afLe

Page 634

634 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

noon of the 18th to await a pilot. Just at nightfall a steamer was descried
in the west approaching the bar, but she was too far off to bemade out
distinctly. Not knowing but she might be an enemy, we cleared ship
for action and awaited her approach with the men at quarters. At a
little after 10 p. m. she came up and anchored some 5 miles from us.
	At early daylight next morning I caused steam to be got up, the
stranger doing the same; got my anchor,and we mutually stood toward
each other. I showed French colors, and in a few minutes afterwards
the stranger showed the same colors. Soon becoming satisfied that the
stranger was a French steamer of xvar, I hauled down the French colors
and hoisted our own, and ran down and spoke him. He proved to bell.
M. S. Vulture, from Martinique to Cayenne, with French convicts on
board, and being, like myself, bound into Surinam for coal, we went in
together. I was detained twelve days in Surinam, in coaling and water-
ing ship, and on the last day of my stay the cabin and wardroom
stewards desertedthe former being my body servant and a slave, the
only slave on board, and the latter being a Malay. The letters here-
with, marked L and M, will show what steps were taken for the recov-
ery of these persons. I have not the least doubt that they were
seduced away by the U. S. consul, a man of no character, married to a
mulatto woman who owned a few slaves, and some Yankee skippers
that were in port.
	I sailed from Surinam on the 31st of August and arrived at Maran-
ham on the 6th of September, having seen but four sail since leaving
Trinidad a month before, one near Trinidad, which I did not chase, as
she was a long way off and in an opposite direction from our course,
and which we could not have overhauled before night if we had chased;
a Dutchman near Surinam; a brig off the Amazon, running before halt
a gale; and a Brazilian mail steamer near Maranham. Maranham is a
port of somewhat difficult access, but as there was no pilot to be seeu
as I entered the bay, at the head of which it stands, I was compelled
either to anchor and sen(i a boat a long way in search of a pilot, and
be delayed perhaps a day, or make the best of my way without one. I
determined upon the latter course, believing that my chart would
enable me to avoid all danger. After having run past the most diffi-
cult parts of the navigation, viz, the shoals off Itacolomi and the I)o
Meio Bank, I was suddenly brought up on a sand bank in 2 fathoms
water, in a place represented as perfectly clear by the chart (one of
the Blunts compilation), and the ship hung for about half a minute. A
rapid tide running out, however, soon swung her bow off the bank, the
edge of which was up and down, and she slid off into deep water without
receiving other damage than the loss of her false keel, a piece of
scanthing of about 6 inches in depth, which had been bolted on to the
keel over her copper to guard her propeller and rudder against the
effects of similar accidents. I had a leadsman in the chains, who had
got a cast of his lead immediately preceding her striking, and found
no botton with 8 or 9 fathoms of line. Warned by this accident of the
faithlessness of my chart I came to, and seeing some fishermen on the
neighboring beach, I dispatched a boat and brought one of them on
board, who undertook to pilot me up to the town, where we arrived and
anchored at about 5 oclock in the afternoon. I had now accomplished
my purpose of reaching the coast of Brazil, but entirely without suc-
cess in the way of captures, as you have seen. Indeed, with the excep-
tion of a small trade in provisions, the war seemed to have put an end
to all the enemys commerce on that part of the coast of South Amer-
ica which we had traversed

Page 635

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	635

	At Surinam there were oniy four small vessels of the enemy, at Cay-
enne one, and at Maranham none. In turning my head eastward after
leaving Cuba, it was my orignal intention to proceed off Cape St.
Roque, the great fork road, as it were, of the commerce of the East and
the West, but upon my arrival at Maranham I abandoned this idea for the
time, the season being unpropitious for operations off this cape. The
S. E. trade wind blows almost a constant gale in this parallel until the
end of December or the first of January, when it relaxes its force and
the rainy season sets in. Accompanying these fierce winds there is
a current setting to the westward of from 2~ to 4 knots per hour. In
such a wind and leeward current I could operate to very little purpose.
Every chase would necessarily be a long one, unless by accident, and
many of the fast sail ships would outrun me under a press of canvas
before these gales. Chasing to leeward, too, would soon put an end to
my cruise, as after every such chase I should be obliged to regain my
station by the aid of steam, driving my ship against both wind and
current. I therefore reluctantly abandoned this idea for the present, as
before stated. Another consideration with me, too, was that my funds
were running short, for I had only brought $10,000 to sea with me. In
the ten captures that I had made no more Ihan the sum of $200 was
found on board of them all. The masters, instead of being intrusted
with money with which to defray their expenses, were uniformly
authorized to draw on their consignees against their charter parties.
	Coal is very high on the coast of Brazil. I paid $17.50 per ton for
it in Maranham. It behooved me, therefore, to arrange my cruising so
that I should not coal too often. I determined, on consideration of all
these facts, to fill up with coal and run back to the equatorial calm
belt, the southern edge of which at this season of the year was about
in latitude 50 N., and placing myself in the track of returning ships
from the Pacific, Rio, etc., cruise for awhile. Chasing would cost me
but small expenditure of fuel here, because of the light winds and
calms, and I might keep the sea six or eight weeks if need be, without
the necessity of returning to port to renew my supplies. We were
treated atMaranham with civility by the authorities, as indeed we had
been everywhere else, and all the better-informed Brazilians whom I
conversed with expressed a warm sympathy in our cause. They
assented readily to the idea that our quarrel was in a great measure
their own, that we were fighting the advance battle of compulsory labor,
and that if we were beaten in it, they in turn would be called upon by
the antislavery propagandists of the world to defend their property
with arms. 1 found the same sentiment in Surinam, Holland not yet
having abolished slavery in her colonies, though there is a strong
abolition party endeayoring to effect it. Whilst I am on this subject,
I may as well mention that I found the coolie trade in full activity in
the English and French colonies, these two governments seeming intent
upon retrieving their error of liberating the black man by enslaving the
white man.
	I was detained nine days in Maranhain by the operations of coaling
and watering ship. I made a small addition to my provisions here,
also, and supplied myself with a new anchor in place of one I had lost
on the coast. On the 14th of September, the day before sailing, I drew
on you, in favor of Mr. J. Wetsou, for time sum of $2,000, this gentleman
having advanced me this sum. Mr. Wetson is a citizen of Texas, tem-
porarily domiciled in Brazil in pursuit of his profession as an engineer,
and has retained all his warm affection for his country, its institutions,
aud its liberties, and not only volunteered his purse in aid of our cause

Page 636

636 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS CONFEDERATE.

but would have come on board in person if it had been possible for him
to arrange his affairs in time. I can not take leave of Maranham
without speaking of an agreeable interview I had with the president
of the province. This interview took place in consequence of an effort
which had been made by the U. S. consul to prevent my being treated
with hospitality in the port, or receiving supplies. This consul, who,
with the usual thrift of his countrymen, was dignifiedly uniting the two
occupations of dentist and consul, averred that I had not been per.
mitted to enter other neutral ports, and protested against my being
permitted to remain in this. As Brazil had already acknowledged
us a belligerent, and declared her intention to preserve a strict neu-
trality between the two parties to the war, this protest only served to
display the ignorance of the young man who had written it. I found
it had made no impression on the government of the provinces, and I
had the satisfaction of refuting its falsehoods by showing the president
that I had not only been courteously received into the colonies of Spain,
Holland, Great Britain, and France, but that I had coaled wherever I
had desired, and coal was to be had in the market.
	The president assured inc that he had no objection to my purchasing
such supplies as I needed, coal included, and assented, in a kindly and
sympathizing manner, to all my propositions relative to the injustice of
the war waged upon us, and the many motives Brazil had to take an
interest in its issue.
	The course pursued by the U. S. consul here was but a counterpart
of that pursued by all the other consuls of the enemy at the several
ports we had visited. With indecent haste, and with falsehood on
their lips, they had endeavored in every instance to prevent our receiv-
ing supplies, resorting to the merchants and the markets when their
influence with the Government failed. The consul at Surinam made
himself particularly obnoxious, and had recourse to all the small expe-
dients which small men are wont to resort to in extremity. I only
smiled, however, at these efforts as they were made known to me, as I
found no difficulty in foiling them, with our recognition by all the great
pow&#38; rs as a belligerent in one hand, and all-potent gold in the other.
Having completed all my arrangements, I steamed out of the port of
Maranham on the 15th of September, and made the best of my way to
my cruising ground. At meridian on the 17th, being in latitude 2~ 20
N., and longitude 410 27 W., I directed the fires to be banked, and put
the ship under sail and cruised for the next twenty-six days between
the parallels of 20 30 N. and 90 30 N. and the meridians of 410 30 W.
and 470 30 W. By inspecting a chart of this portion of the Atlantic,
it will be perceived that the N.W. diagonal of the quadrilateral figure
marked out by these parallels and meridians is the direct course between
Cape St. iRoque and New York, and it was near this diagonal that I
kept my ship, sometimes to the eastward and sometimes to the west-
ward of it.
	On the 25th of September, at daylight, we descried and chased a
sail to the northward and eastward, with which we caine up about
10:30 a m. She proved to be the brigantine Joseph Park, of Boston,
from Pernambuco to Turks Island. The property of this vessel being
wholly in the citizens of Massachusetts, I captured her. She had no
cargo on board, and but a small sum of money (about $800)part of
her outward-earned freightthe remainder being in a bill on Turks
Island. I put a prize crew on board this vessel and kept her in com-
pany with me for three days, as a lookout or scout ship. At the end
of this time I set fire to and burned her. The number of prisoner

Page 637

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	637

removed from her was ten. Some water and provisions and a few
spars and sails, etc., were obtained from her. Nothing was seen
between this day and the 5th day of October, wheii Sail, ho ! was
again cried from aloft. The sail was far to windward of us, standing
to the N. W., and it was blowing a very fresh N. E. trade. We gave
chase, and, althongh the stranger was evidently very fast aiid had
crowded 011 all the sail that wonid draw with the wind a little abaft
his beam, we came up with him in three hours and a quarter. I
showed him the United States colors, and was much disappointed,
after the expenditure of so much steam and speed, to see him run up
in retnrn the English flag. I boarded him, nevertheless, found him
what his colors represented him to be (the brig ~3partan, of Halifax,
from Rio de Janeiro to St. Thomas), and permitted him, without
unnecessary detention, to proceed on his course. In reply to his ques-
tion as to what we were doing in this latitude, my boarding officer
stated that we were cruising in pursuit of the Aurnter and Jeti. Davis,
and heno doubt so reported us at St. Thomas. No other sail having been
seen between this date and the 13th, 1 came to the conclusion that the
beaten track between Rio and New York had been abandoned, and
I filled away and made sail to the northward and westward. I was
aided in drawing this conclusion by a letter found on board the Joseph
Park, from a ship master to his owners, in the following terms. He
writes from Pernambuco:
	The Asterion arrived off this port last evening, seventy-five days from Baker Island,
and caine to anchor in the outer roads this morning. I found yours of August 9 and
noted the contents, which I must say have made me rather blue. I think you had
better insure, even at the extra premium, as the Asterioa is not a clipper and will be
a bon prize for the Southerners. I shall sail this evening (September 16, three days
before the Joseph Park) and take a new route for Hampton Roads

	Like scared waterfowl, the returning ships from the Pacific and the
coast of Brazil have no doubt each for itself winged a separate and
eccentric flight homeward.
	On the 27th of October we fell in with and captured the schooner D.
Trowbridge, of New Haven, Coun., bound to IDeinerara with a cargo of
provisions. I supplied myself from her with provisions for five months,
took such sails and other articles as I needed from her, and burned her.
As we approached the Windward West India lslands (in pursuance of
an intention to run into Martinique and replenish my water and fuel)
we entered a new track of commerce in which vessels became more
abundant. Between the date of our capture of the Trowbridge and our
arrival at Martinique on the 9th of November, a period of thirteen days,
we overhauled and boarded fifteen sail, not one of which, however,
proved to be an American. Indeed, from this striking fhct and other
circumstances which have come to my knowledge, I have no doubt that
almost the entire trade of the Uiiited States with the West Indies has
been broken up. On the 9th of November, being nearly entirely out of
water and having but little fuel remaining, I ran into Fort de France,
Martinique, and anchored, after an active cruise of fifty-five days at
sea, having spoken in this time seventeen sail, only two of which proved
to be American, and which two I burned, as already related. Three of
the sixteen prisoners received from the burned vessels preferring to
remain with me, I shipped them into the service; the remainder I put on
parole and delivered to the U. S. consul.
I have the honor to be, etc.,	[It. SEMMES,
	Hon. S. It. MALLORY,	Commander, C. ~. Navy.]
iS~eeretary of the Navy, Richmond, Va

Page 638

638 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to the acting U. S.
consul at Cadiz, Spain, regarding transfer of prisoners.

0.	5. 5. SUMTER. Cadiz, January 4, 1861 [2].
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you that I have on board this ship
forty-three prisoners of war, late the crews of a ship, a bark, and a
schooner, property of citizens of the United States, burned by me on
the high seas. These men having elected to be discharged on parole,
I am ready to deliver them to you.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
JOHN S. SMITH,
Acting Consul of the United States, (Jadiz.

Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to the civil governor,

Cadiz, Spain.

C.	S. S. SUMTER, Cadiz, January 7, 1862.
	SIR:	I have had the honor to receive your communication of this
days date, requesting me to land my prisoners and put the necessary
repairs upon my ship with all necessary dispatch.
I have the honor, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
Seflor Y. MENDEZ DE VIGO,
Civil Governor, Cadiz.

Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to the U. S. consul
at Cadiz, Spain, declining communicaticn till properly addressed.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Cadiz, January 7, 1862.
	SIR:	Your note of this morning having been sent off to me by a com-
mon boatman, I could not learn the name of the writer without break-
ing the envelope. Having done so, and ascertained it to be t5rom your-
selt I decline to receive it as being improperly addressed. My address
is as follows: Commander R. Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S.
S. 5umter
I have the honor to be, etc.,
	[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
	E. S. EGGLESTON,	Commander, C. S. Navy.]
U. S. Consul.

Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to the captain of
the port, Cadiz, Spain, relative to docking ship.

C.	5. 5. SUMTER,
Cadiz, January 7, 1862.
	SIR:	I desire to place my ship in dock for repairs with all convenient
dispatch. Will you facilitate for me this operation ~
I have the honor, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,

Commander, C, S. Navy.]
The CAPTAIN OF THE PORT, Cadiz

Page 639

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	639

Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Hon. W. L.
Yancey, C. S. commissioner, London, requesting supplies~of money and clothing.


C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Gadiz, January 7, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you of my arrival at this port with
this ship under my command, forty-two days from the island of Martin-
ique, in the West Indies. Onmy way across the Atlantic I capturedfour
of the enemys ship, three of which I burned. Myprisoners, forty-three
in number, I shall liberate on parole. My ship having been one hun-
dred and thirty-six days at sea, and having eiicountered several severe
gales of wind on her passage to this place, is leaking badly, and is
otherwise so much out of condition as to render it necessary to dock
her for repairs. For this purpose I shall require funds. Can you
supply me 6? I shall need at least $20,000. My crew need clothing
also, and the best plan of supplying this necessary material of suita-
ble quality and at reasonable rates would be to procure it in London
and ship it to me by steamer. Two hundred complete suits, pea
jackets excepted, such as are worn by the British seamen, would give
me an ample supply.
	Upon uiy arrival here I was summarily ordered to depart within
twenty-fourhours, but I respectfully declined to do so, and upon the ques-
tion being referred to Madrid the local authorities were overruled and
permission was given me both to land my prisoners and put my ship
in dock for repairs. I was in hopes, when I first took the sea, that I
should be able to live entirely upon the enemy, but I have found the
Yankee skippers and their owners so poor and so parsimonious in the
way of money that, although I have captured 16 of them, I have
gotten from the whole of them no more than about $1,000. Provisions
of the best quality I have captured in abundance.
	I am entirely without intelligence from our Government. Will you
be pleased to communicate to me any orders you may have for me or
any intelligence which you may think important, and to inform mc
how I may communicate with the Secretary of the Navy6
I have the honor, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
	Hon. WM. L. YANCEY,
Commissioner of the Confederate States, London, England.



~Te1egram.]


	Copy of a dispatch received from London, January 7:

SEMMES, Cadiz:
	Very important your ship to be at Falmouth soon as possible. Answer.
	NORTH,
No. 37 Russell Square.
	Answer:
CADI?
NORTH, 37 Russell Street, London:	~ January 7.
	Sumter can not leave Cadiz without being docked. Telegraphed Mr. Yancey
to-day. Want funds. Will use all dispatch.
	R. SEMMES

Page 640

640 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. i~avy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to the captain-general
of the Department San Fernando, regarding docking ship.

JANUARY 8, 1862.

	SIR:	I have obtained permission from the Government to put my
ship into dock for repairs, and have been referred by his Excel-
lency Sefior Don Y. Mendez de Vigo to yourself as the proper person
to make application to for this purpose. Will you be pleased to facili-
tate, this object, so that I may be admitted into dock as soon as possible~
My ship is ready at any moment to come up to the dock.
I have tlj&#38; honor, etc.,
[IRAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
His Excellency the CAPTAIN-GENERAL OF THE DEPARTMENT SAN
FERNANDO.



Letter from -Commander Semmes, U S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to the civil gov-
ernor, Cadiz, ~pain, calling attention to an insult. tc officers of the C. S. S. Sumter.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Cadiz, January 8, 1862.
	SIR:	It becomes my duty to infrrm you that) a couple of my officers,
whilst coming on board this ship to-day at 11 a. in., in a boat from the
shore, were rudely and uncivilly commanded to come alongside the
guard boat, although they had oii their uniforms at the time, and eveii
after they had gone alongside and there could no longer be any doubt
of their character, if any had previously existed, the boat in which
they were embarked was insultingly searched. I am sure I need not
comment upon such conduct as this, as your Excellency, as a gentle-
man and an officer, must see at a glance that such conduct is without
justification or apology.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
[IRAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy. 1
Senor Y. MENDEZ BE VI~O,
Civil Governor of the Port of Cadiz, Spain.



Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, for publication in
the London Times,

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
January 9, [18621.
To THE EDITOR OF THE [LONDON] TIMES:

	SIR:	Permit me, through the medium of your columns, to say a word
to the civilized world in defense of my ship against the scurrilous and
cowardly attack made upon her by Mr. Gideon Welles, who is just now
the Secretary of the Northern fragment of what was formerly knowii
as the United States of America. That gentleman (for by courtesy I
must call him such, from the high official position which he occupies)
used the following language in his recent annual report to the President
and Congress of what remains of the old Confederacy:
	It was natural that apprehension should prevail in regard to armed cruisers com-
missioned expressly by the rebel leaders to depredate upon our commerce. This
robbery of merchants and others engaged iu peaceful and lawful pursuits by pirat

Page 641

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.
641

cal cruisers is not inconsistent with the general conduct of those who have violated
law and moral obligations to gratify inordinate ambition. Our extended commerce
presented inducements for piratical warfare, yet but few of our misguided country-
men have prostituted themselves to the purpose of plunder, though thereto invited,
and those few have been in constant flight to escape the avenging power of our vigi-
lant naval forces.
	Such of these cruisers as eluded the blockade and capture were soon wrecked,
beacbed, or sunk, with the exception of one, the steamer Sumter, which, by some
fatality, was permitted to pass the Brooklyn, then blockading one of the passes of
the Mississippi, and after a brief and feeble chase by the latter, was allowed to pro-
ceed on her piratical voyage. An investigation of this whole occurrence was
ordered by the Department. Soon the Niagara and the Powhatan, from the Gulf
Squadron, followed in vigorous pursuit, the latter, though long in commission and
with defective boilers and machinery, under her energetic commander, tracking the
piratical craft as far as Maranham.
	The Keystone State, Bichrnond, Iroquois, and San Jacinto were also in search of her
at different points and periods. Although a piratical rover, without license from
any recognized or acknowledged government, and avowedly engaged in the rob-
bery and plunder of our citizens, I regret to say this vessel has been received and
her wants supplied, against the remonstrance of our consuls, by public authorities
in many foreign ports where her character was well known.

	The closing paragraph of the above elegant extract from an Amer-
ican state paper seems to show that, although it was penned ostensi-
bly against myself, it was in fact leveled at those European powers
which had acknowledged the Confederate States to be lawful bellig-
erents in the war which had been forced upon them. On no other sup-
position could it charge me with robbery on the high seas and with
being a piratical rover. A pirate is hostis hurnani generis, and may
be seized and summarily dealt with by any and all the nations of the
earth; but the fact is, these officers of the defunct Federal Union are
so blinded by their venom against the South that they have no longer
the power to distinguish between terms.
	Mr. Welles also in imitation of the dirty and mendacious press of the
Yankee Stat~s, calls me a privateer. He knows better than this. He
knows that a privateer is a vessel that bears a letter of marque, and
that I am cruising under no such letter. He knows that I have been
regularly commissioned as a ship of war of the Confederate States.
If he and his deluded associates insist upon calling the citizens of the
Confederate States rebels, under the idea that those States still
form a part of the old Yankee concern, then he might characterize me
as a rebel man-of-war. But if I am this, so were all the ships of the
American colonies commissioned by the Virginian, George Wash-
ington.
	Mr. Welles tells the President and Congress that by some fatality
I ran the blockade of New Orleans, and that he has ordered the whole
affair to be investigated. With the blind rage of a baffled madman
(quem Dens vult perdere, etc.) he will, no doubt, endeavor to crush the
harmless and inoffensive commander of the Brooklyn, who, poor man, no
doubt did his best. He says, also, that he has had six of his largest
and fastest steamers in pursuit of me, and that the commander of one
of them was so energetic as to perform the wonderful feat of tracking
me as far as Maranham. in Brazil.
	This, I suppose, is one of those daring acts, the officer being in com-
mand of a heavy frigate, which called forth the panegyric of the Yan-
kee Navy which we find in a subsequent part of Mr. Welles report; for
after praising his clerks this officer goes on to remark: To the patri-
otic officers of the Navy, and the brave men who in various scenes of
naval action had served under them, the Department and the Govern-
ment justly owe an acknowledgment even more earnest and emphatic
than that which they owe to his clerks.
123A4

Page 642

642 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Oh! for a James to portray these scenes of naval action, confined
to a predatory warfare on the Potomac River, directed chiefly against
women and children; to the capture of a sand-bag battery at II atteras;
to the masterly movement of the great Du Pont, the greatest naval
commander of the age,~~ in Yankee hyperbole, who not only knows how
to use gunpowder, but with Yankee thrift to turn an honest penny by
selling it to the Government; and to the pursuit of the piratical ~3urnter,
away ever so far, even to the shore of Brazil, by the gallant Porter,
who probably for this feat, so little material has Mr. Welles for heroes,
will be made a flag-officer.
	I feel honored to have been pursued by six frigates, and one of them
caught Messrs. Mason and Slidell instead of catching me. Why,that is
John Bulls affair, and not mine. But I am fleeing from these ships,
says Mr. Welles. Soft, Mr. Welles. He would have me, I suppose,
fall into the Yankee trap he has set for me, and rush to the encounter
of his six frigates, the least of which is twice the size of my weight of
metal. He dares not send a ship of equal force to meet me, and if he
did dare to, being safely ensconced himself in his arm chair, J venture
to say that the officer would not dare to find me. But I have to inform
Mr. Welles that by some fatality I have run another blockade.
I have recently steamed out of the port of St. Pierre, in the island of
Martinique, in the face of one of the fastest and finest of his Yankee
ships, the Iroquois, and which is more than twice my force. Poor
Captain Palmer! Jfearthathe,too,willbeimmolatedonthealtarof
the universal Yankee nation, because he did not catch the Sumter,
though, from all we can learn he had fits on the occasion. This honor-
able captain is indeed a fit representative of the honor of Yankee-
doodledom, for he has violated the sovereignty of France and his own
solemn pledge at the same time, given to the commanding French~ and
naval officer present, by causing blue lights (brought all the way, no
doubt, from New London, Coun.) to be burned on board a Yankee
schooner in the harbor to signal to him my departure. But I only
allude to this en passant, as France is abundantly able to take care of
her own honor
If the universal Yankee nation
Can whip all creation.

	When Mr. Welles learns, too, that on my way hither I burned three
more Yankee ships and liberated a fourth only because she had an Eng-
lish cargo on board, he will probably send six more of his doughty war
ships after me, that is to say, if he can spare them from burning corn
cribs and frightening women and children along our Southern coast.
He will take especial care~ too, to put plenty of men and guns on board
of them, for otherwise I might not be in such constant flight to escape
the avenging power of our yigilant naval force. A word or two more
and I shall have done.
	What can wise Mr. Welles mean when he objects to the robbery of
merchants and others engaged in peaceful commerce and lawful pur-
suits l Does he not know that all property, with rare exceptions,
captured on the high seas is property belonging to merchants and
others engaged in peaceful commerce and lawful pursuits o?~~ Why this
senseless diatribe, then, about robbery, and piracy, and privateproperty,
and peaceful commerce, and lawful pursuits ~ If Mr. Welles would
give me an opportunity of capturing some of his public property I
would be much obliged to him. But he takes very good care not to do
this, by sending his heaviest ships after me. And have the Yankee
naval officers in those scenes of naval action, in which they hav

Page 643

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	643

distinguished themselves, refrained from the capture of private prop-
erty l
	I saw recently in a Yankee paper an account of a wood sloop, that
is, a sloop loaded with firewood, having been most gallantly captured
and burned the other day on the Potomac, and a number of other small
craft, belonging to the poor people along the coast, have been captured
from time to time and sent to Yankeedom for adjudication. Even
fishermen have been subjected to the same fate, a class exempted by
all civilized nations. But I suppose it is only when the vessel is a fine
ship of 1,000 tons, belongs to a Yankee, and is captured by the Sumter,
that the property becomes private! Astute Mr. Welles! The fact is,
that this Northern horde of the Alani which is bearing down upon the
sunny fields of the South, in imitation of their ancient prototypes, has
(while Mr. Welles is singing his hypocritical song) set all the rules of
civilized warfare at defiance, and captures private property on the land
as well as the sea.
	The gallant iDu Pont laid his unscrupulous hands upon all the cot-
ton he could find at Beaufort, a few bales only, as it happened, and
first and last many brilliant achievements in the way of stealing
negroes and robbing and burning private residences have been accomn-
plished by these Northmen amid the various scenes of naval
action in which they have flourished. But I grow tired of the sub-
ject, and I fear I have already trespassed too much upon your space
and patience. I am reminded, too, of an old adage, that he who
meddles with pitch shall be defiled, ~ and so I will take leave of Mr.
Gideon Welles and his scurrilous report.
111.	SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.


Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to the captain-
general of the marine, Cadiz, Spain, regarding docking ship.


C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Cadiz, January 10, 1862.
	SIR:	I have had the honor to receive your communication of to-day,
informing me that I can come up to San Fernando on the evening of
the 12th instant, for the purpose of being docked the next day. I will
communicate with the captain of the port and come up on the day
indicated.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[R. SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
Excelentisimo Sefior CAPTAIN-GENERAL OF THE MARINE
O~ THE DEPARTMENT OF CADIZ, SAN FERNANDO.



Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to the civil gov-
ernor, Cadiz, Spain, requesting permission to put a man ashore.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Cadiz, January 10, 1862.
	SIR:	On my passage hither from the island of Martinique one of my
marines, whilst on guard over prisoners of war, was found asleep on
his post. He was tried by a court-martial for the offense, found guilty,
and, instead of being sentenced to death, as he might have been unde

Page 644

644 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

our laws, the court leniently sentenced him to be kept in irons until we
should arrive in port and then to be discharged from the service. Will
you permit me to put this man on shore here l
I have the honor, etc.,
[li. SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
	Exceleutisimo Sefior Y. MENDEz DE VIGO,
Civil Governor, Cadiz.


Lotter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Snmter, to the civil gov-
ernor, Cadiz, Spain, acknowledging commnnication.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Cadiz, January 11, 1862.
	SIR:	I have had the honor to receive yonr note of to-day, informing
me that I might laud the marine mentioned iu my note of the 10th
instant. I will pnt him ashore on the mole to-morrow at 10 oclock a. m.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
[R. SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
	Excelentisimo Selior Y. MENDEZ DE VIc~o,
Civil Governor


[Telegram.]

CADIz, January 12, 1862.
	Sumter in dock. Funds required. Send $20,000. Answer.
li.	SEMMES.
YANCEY or FEARN,
(Care of iDr. C. W. Norcome,)
67 Rue de Seine, Paris.


Detailed report of Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Snmter, of the move-
ments of that vessel from November 9, 1561, to Jannary 16, 1862.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Cadiz, January 16, 1862.
	SIR: In my last dispatch sent from this place by the British steamer
Amazon, for Lomidon, which promised to place it in the hands of the
Hon. William L. Yancey, for transmission to you, I had the honor to
give you a detailed account of the operations of this ship under my
command from the date of her equipment in New Orleans to that of my
arrival at the island of Martinique on the 9th of November last.
	As stated in that dispatch, I at first anchored in the harbor of Fort
de France. Finding no coal here in private hands, and the governor
being unwilling to supply me from the public docks, I dispatched my
paymaster to St. Pierre to ascertain if it could be procured there. In
the meantime I had had an interview with the governor on the subject
of supplies generally, and he had promised me that I might procure
freely whatever I might need. My paymaster returned from St. Pierre
in due course of steamer, and reported to me that although coal in
abundance could be had at that place, the collector of the cnstoms ha

Page 645

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	345

interposed and prohibited the merchants from selling or delivering it
to me. Upon this being made known to me I addressed a letter to the
governor, a copy of which is annexed, marked A. The governors
reply is also appended, marked B. From these two letters you will
perceive that the difficulty was removed. Having remained no longer
at Fort de France than was necessary to water ship and give my crew
a short mn on shore, I got underway on the 13th of November and
proceeded to St. Pierre. I commenced coaling ship on the same even-
ing. On the next day at about 3 p. m. the enemys steam sloop, the
Iroquois, of twice my size and force, made her appearance off the harbor
and, without coming to anchor, cruised to and fro across my bow in
blockade for twenty-four hours. My ship was moored head and stern
within 100 yards of the shore for convenience of coaling, and the Iro-
quois sometimes approacbed me within a ships length, especially dur-
ing the night. I kept my crew constantly 1)repared for action, making
them sleep at their guns, as from this offensive violation of the neutral
waters in which I was lying I supposed that the enemy might possibly
have the audacity to assault me. As soon as this conduct of the enemy
was made known to the governor at Fort de France by his subordi.
nates, he dispatched the French steamer of war Acheron, Captain
IDuchatel [IDuchaxel], to St. Pierre to see that the neutral rights of
France were properly respected. At the same time I addressed
a letter to the governor, a copy of which is annexed, marked C.
Sooii after the arrival of the Acheron, the Iroquois caine to anchor,
whereupon the captain of the Aeheron went on board of her and
demanded that she should either depart twenty-hours before the
AS1wnter, or permit the Sumter to depart twenty-four hours before her.
Instead of acceding to this demand, however, Captain Palmer imme-
diately got underway and stood to sea, placing himself about a league
(though frequently coming within a mile or a mile and a half under
cover of night) from the shore. He continued to cruise in this manner
until I made my escape. In the meantime I addressed letters to Cap-
tain IDuchatel [Duchaxel], copies of which are annexed, marked D,
E, and F, which will explain themselves.
	On the night of the 23d of November, the moon having waned
sufficiently to render the night partially obscure, at 8 p. m. I slipped
my moorings and started under a full head of steam to the south-
ward. Immediately, as I had predicted, blue lights were burned
from the deck of a Yankee schooner in port to signal to the Iroquois
my departure and the direction I had taken. Seeing which, in the
course of about twenty minutes, I doubled, ran in under the shadow
of the land, and stood in the opposite direction, to the northward.
By this simple maneuver I not only deceived the enemy but turned
his signals to my own advantage. I steamed rapidly along the
west side of Dominica after leaving Martinique, and the next morn-
ing the Iroquois and the Sumter were probably 150 miles apart. The
night, which was quite clear when I started, became squally aiid
rainy soon afterwards. But whilst the squalls were driving Captain
Palmer with accelerated speed southward, in obedience to his signals,
I had broken the force of them by taking shelter under the lee of
Dominica, and was steaming with undiminished speed in the opposite
direction. Some time previously to my arrival at Martinique I had
resolved upon making the run to Europe, and in accordance with
this intention I now shaped my course so as to get out of the trades as
soon as possible that I might use my sails, upon which I mainly
depended. Judging from the experience of my last cruise, the enemy

Page 646

646 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

West India trade seemed to be pretty well broken up, and I not only
deemed the waters of Europe a better cruising ground for me, but it
had become necessary to put my ship into dock for repairs. With this
latter view I directed my course to Cadiz, where I knew there were
good docks, and to which port the distance was somewhat less than to
England. I could make the passage, too, in parallels of latitude more
favorable to good weather, which was important, as my upper works
were too weak to encounter the heavy gales of the North Atlantic in
midwinter. As it was, I suffered considerable damage on the passage
in a very heavy gale, which I took some 400 miles from the Azores.
	Between t1ie 23d of November and the 8th of December I overhauled
a number of foreign sail, bound principally to the West Indies. On the
25th of November, in latitude 18~ II N. and longitude 580 48 W., I
brought to and boarded the ship Miontrnorenci, of Bath, Me., from New-
port in Wales to the island of St. Thomas in the West Indies. This
ship was laden with coal for the British Mail Steam Packet Company
in St. Thomas,and aslcould not burn her without destroying also
neutralpropertylwas forcedtoliberateher,whichldid after putting
the master and crew on parole and taking from the master in behalf
of the owners a ransom bond in the sum of $20,000. This case illus-
trated in a forcible manner the hardship of the rule adopted by neu-
ral nations excluding prizes from their ports. Our own ports being
blockaded, I could not send this ship to the Confederate States, and,
as under the rule stated I could not send her to any neutral port, my
only alternative was to destroy her, but this I could not do for the
reason stated. The cargo of coal with which this ship was laden cost
in Newport, Wales, about $4,000, while the ship herself was worth, I
suppose, ten times as much. Thus, to save $4,000 to British subjects,
I was forced to abandon $40,000 to the enemy. On the next day, the
26th, I overhauled amid burned the schooner Arcade, of Portland, Me.,
bound to the Island of Guadeloupe with a cargo of staves. On the 3d
of December, in latitude 290 10 N. and longitude 570 22 W., I over-
hauled and turned the fine ship Vigilant, of Bath, Me., bound in bal-
last from New York to the guano islands of Sombrero, in the West
indies. We captured on board this vessel a rifled 9-pounder, which,
with its ammunition, I took on board. On the 8th of December I over-
hauled and bnrned the fine bark Eben Dodge, of New Bedford, Mass.,
twelve days out, and completely equipped for a whaling voyage in the
Pacific. I had now 43 prisoners on board, as many as I could well take
care of on the long passage which was before me, and I therefore made
the best of way across the Atlantic.
	As I approached Madeira, and afterwards the coast of Spain, how-
ever, I chased and overhauled a number of other sail, but they all
proved to be foreign. I made the Cadiz light on the night of the 3d
of January, and on the next morning entered the harbor. The first act
of I he authorities was to put mue in quaramitine for want of a bill of
health, and after I had been in port some twenty-four hours I was
warned to depart. Upon the receipt of this warning I addressed to the
military commandant a letter, of which a copy is annexed, marked G.
The contents of this letter having been telegraphed to Madrid, the cen-
tral Government overruled the proceedings of the local authorities and
permitted me to land my prisoners and to remain in port for repairs.
This decision was announced to me in a letter from the civil governor
of Cadiz, a copy of which is annexed, marked fl~~ Having arrived at
Cadiz without funds (there being only about $600 on board, the whole
* Not found

Page 647

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	647

amount captured by me in the 10 sail which I had seized being only
about $1,000), I telegraphed immediately to the Hon. W. L. Yancey to
supply me. I have not yet received a reply from him. In the mean-
time, on the 13th of January, my ship was admitted into one of the
Government docks for repairs, where I am at this moment.

JANUARY 16.
	I received a dispatch from Mr. Yancey, yesterday, informing me that
my request for funds would be complied with. My ship is out of dock,
a part of one plank having been replaced under her bilge and the place
recoppered and the propeller overhauled. We found a part of the false
keel gone, but the authorities would not replace it, as not being neces-
sary to the safety of the ship at sea. I am now anchored in the bay
and am preparing to calk my upper works and repair the boilers and
condenser and pumps, which latter repairs will, I fear, detain me some
time.
[I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ZR. SEMMES,
[Hon. S. ZR. MALLORY,	Commander, C. S. Navy.]

Secretary of the Navy.]

[Enclosure A.]

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Fort Royal [Fort de France], November 12, 1861.
	SIR:	In the interview which I had the honor to hold with your Excel-
lency on Saturday last, the 9th instant, I understood your Excellency
to assent to the proposition that I might go into the market at St.
Pierre and purchase such supplies as I might stand in need of coal
included. The precise position assumed by your Excellency was that
you would neither assent nor prohibit. On the faith of this under-
standing I dispatched one of my lieutenants and my paymaster to
St. Pierre to make the necessary purchases, and they have returned
and reported to me that they found an abundance of coal in the market,
and at reasonable rates, and that the owners of it are anxious to sup-
ply me with it, but that your collector of the customs had interposed and
prohibited the merchants from selling or delivering it to nie. For the
information of your Excellency, I will here state that I have been per-
mitted to coal in all the ports I have heretofore visited, except only
at the French port of Cayenne, where I was informed that there was
no coal in the market, and where it was insisted that I should undergo
a quarantine of five days before communicating with the town. As it
was not convenient for me to undergo this quarantine, I sailed imme-
diately. I have coaled at Cienfuegos, in the island of Cuba. at Cura~ao,
at Trinidad, at Surinam, and at Maranham.
	It thus appears that Spain, Holland, England, and Brazil have each
deemed it consistent with their neutrality in the present war to per-
mit me freely to supply myself with coal. Am I to understand from
the action of your officers at St. Pierre that you have withdrawn the
implied assent given me on Saturday last, and that France, through
your agency, adopts a different and a less friendly rule? Will France
drive a vessel of war of the Confederate States from one of her islands
to a British island to procure coal? And if she does this, on what
principle will she do it? It is a well-settled rule of international law
that belligerent cruisers have the right to enter freely into neutra

Page 648

648 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

ports for the purpose of replenishing their stores of provisions, or
replacing a lost mast or spar, and why should not they be equally per-
mitted to receive on board coal l Coal is no more necessary to the
locomotion of a steamer than is a mast or spar to a sail ship. It is no
more necessary to a cruise than provisions. Without a mast, or with-
out provisions, a sail ship could not continue her cruise against the
enemy, and yet the neutral permits her to supply herself with these
articles. Nor can such supplies as these be placed on the ground of
humanity. It would be inhuman, it is true, to permit the crew of a
belligerent cruiser to perish in your ports by debarring it from access
to your markets from day to day, but it does not follow that it would
be inhuman to prevent her from laying in a stock of provisions to
enable her to proceed to sea and continue her cruise against her
enemy. It is not humanity to supply a vessel with a lost mast or a
spar, and yet no one doubts that this may be done. Humanity, then,
being out of the question, what possit)le distinction can your Excel-
lency draw between supplying a vessel with the articles above men-
tioned and supplying her with coall Without any one of them she
would be unable to pros-ecute her cruise against the enemy; why, then,
supply her with a part and not with the whole a? If you would not
deny a mast or a spar to a sail ship, notwithstanding they are essen-
tial to her locomotion, on hat principle would you deny coal to a
steamer a?
	Without troubling your Excellency further, however, with an argu-
ment of the question, I will content myself with stating what I believe
to be the true rule of law, and it is this: A belligerent ship of war cau
not increase her armament or her crew in a neutral port nor supply her-
self with ammunition, but, with these exceptions, she may procure what-
ever supplies she needs. Although it would be an easy matter for me
to run to one of the British or Danish or Dutch islands, I shonld regret to
be obliged to do so and to have to inform my Government of the reasou.
I would not willingly have France adopt a rule which would effectually
shut us out of her ports, whilst Holland, Great Britain, Spain, and
Brazil admit us freely into theirs. The rule prohibiting us from bring-
ing our prizes into neutral ports operates very harshly upon us, as the
weaker naval power of the two belligerents, without adding to it one
still more harsh, and which has the sanction of neither law nor prec-
edent. If, however, it be the determination of your Excellency to
insist upon my departure without coal, I beg that you will have the
goodness to say as much to me in writing. Your Excellency is the best
judge of your instructions and of what they require of you.
	I have the honor to be, with much consideration, your obedient ser-
vant, etc.,
[ItAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
His Excellency M. MATJSSION PE CANn~,
LAmirat et Gouverneur de la Martinique.

[Eneloanre B.]

(Translation of a reply received from the governor in answer to the preceding.)

FORT PE FRANCE, November 12, 1861.
	CAPTAIN: I have the honor to send you the enclosed letter, which
I ask you to hand to the collector of customs at St. Pierre, in which I
request him to permit you to embark freely as muCh coal as you wish
to purchase in the market

Page 649

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	649

	I do not change at all from the position which I took with you on
Saturday last. I do not consider that I am empowered any more to
give you coal from the Government supply of this division than I am
to interfere with the market to prevent its being sold to you there.
	With the expression of my highest regard for the captain,
MAUSSION BE CAND]~.
[Enclosure C.]
C.	S. S. SUMTER,
~t. Pierre, Island of Martinique, November 15, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform your Excellency that I am closely
blockaded in this port by the enemys steam sloop of war the Iroquois,
of twice my force. This vessel, in defiance of the laws of nations and
in contempt of the neutrality of this island, has boldly entered the
harbor, and without coming to anchor is cruising backward and for-
ward in a menacing attitude, not only within the marine league of the
shore, but within less than a ships length of this vessel, which is
moored not more than 100 yards from the beach. During the past
night she several times approached me within 50 or 100 yards. I deem
it my duty to acquaint your Excellency with these facts and to invoke
your authority for the preservation of my just rights within your
waters. I take the following principles, applicable to the present case,
to be well settled by the law of nations:
	First. That no act of hostility, proximate or remote, can be commit-
ted by any belligerent within neutral waters.
	Secondly. That when a cruiser of one belligerent takes refuge within
the waters of a neutral power, a cruiser of the opposite belligerent can
not follow her into those waters for purposes of hostility, proximate or
remote. lt is not only unlawful for her to approach within the marine
league for the purposes of watch and menace, but it is equally unlaw-
ful for her to hover about the coasts of the neutral at any distance,
within plaimi view, for the same purposes. All these are remote or
prospective acts of war, and as such offensive to the neutral power.
	Thirdly. That when opposite belligerents meet by accident in a neu-
tral port, if one of them departs therefrom, the other is bound to wait
twenty-four hours before departing. For the opposite belligerent to
depart immediately in pursuit is to avail herself of the neutral terri-
tory for the purpose of war. She commits, by the very fact of sailing,
a remote act of hostility, which is offensive to the neutral state.
	In view of the foregoing facts and principles, I respectfully request
that your Excellency will cause the Iroquois to cease hovering about
the coasts of the island for the purpose of watching my movements;
in other words, to withdraw herself out of plain sight, or, if she prefers
to come in to anchor, to direct either that she shall depart twenty-four
hours before me or wait twenty-four hours after my departure, which-
ever she may prefer. I shall be ready for sea in four or five days, as
soon as my engineers can make some necessary repairs to my machinery.
	In conclusion, it is quite possible that the captain of the Iroquois
may arrange some signals for giving him intelligence of my movements
with the U. S. consul at this port, and I have therefore to request that
some officer may be charged with the prevention of any such act of
hostility.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
	IHis Excellency M. MAUSSION BE
Admiral and Governor of Martinique

Page 650

	650	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.
		                     [Enclosure ID.]

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
St. Pierre, November 21, 1861.
	SIR:	It becomes my duty to complain of the continued violation of the
neutrality of this port and of my right of asylum, by the enemys steam
sloop of war, the Iroquois. This vessel, in shameful disregard of the
warning she has received from his Excellency the governor, comes
every night, under cover of the darkness, within a mile and a half or
less of the anchotage Last night at 9 oclock she was seen from my
deck with the naked eye, assisted by an occasional flash of lightning,
and as the night was comparatively obscure, no vessel, not being under
sail, could have been seen at a greater distance than from a mile to a
mile and a half.
	I have, besides, to inform you that two small boats communicated
with the enemy in broad daylight yesterday, one of them pulling, upon
leaving her, to the north point and the other to the south point of the
harbor.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Gommander, C. S. Navy.]
Mr. DUCHATEL [DUCHAXEL],
Commander of H. ill. French Steamer J9Acheron.

[Enclosure E.]

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
St. Pierre, November 22, 1861.
	SIR:	I have had the honor to receive your letter of yesterday, in which
you communicate to me the views of the governor of Martinique rela-
tive to the pcotectiou of my right of asylum in the waters of this island,
and I regret to say that those views do not appear to me to come up to
the requirments of the international code. The governor says that
it does not enter into his intentions to exercise toward the Iroquois,
either by night or by day, so active a surveillance as you desire ~ and
you tell me that we ought to have confidence in the strict execution
of a promise made by a commander in the military marine of the Amer-
ican Union, so long as he has not shown to us evidence that this engage-
ment has not been scrupulously fulfilled. It would appear from these
expressions that the only protection I am to receive against the block-
ade of the enemy is a simple promise exacted from that enemy that he
will keep himself without the marine league of the land, the governor
meantime exercising no watch, by night or by day, to see whether this
promise is complied with. In addition to the facts related by me yes-
terday, I have this morning to report that one of my officers, being on
shore in the northern environs of the town last night, between 8 and 9
oclock, saw two boats, each pulling eight oars, the men dressed in
dark clothing, with the caps usually worn by seamen of the Northern
States, pulling quietly in toward the beach, and he distinctly heard a
conversation in English between them, one of them saying, Harry,
there she is; I see her, in allusion, doubtless, to the presence of my ves-
sel. These boats, no doubt, have orders to make signal to the Iroquois
the moment they discover me underway. Now, with all due deference
to his Excellency the governor, I can not see the difference between the
violation of the neutrality of these waters by the enemys boats and
by his ship. And if no strict surveillance is to be exercised, either b

Page 651

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	651

night or by day,~~ I am receiving very much such protection as the wolf
would accord to the lamb.
	It is au act of war for the enemy to approach me with his boats for the
purpose of reconnoissance, and especially during the night, and I have
the same right to demand that he keep his boats beyond the marine
league as that he keep his ship at that distance. Nor am I willing to
rely upon his promise that he will not infringe my rights in this partic-
ular. It appears to me, further, especially after the knowledge of the
facts which I have brought to your notice, that it is the duty of France
to exercise surveillance over her own waters both by night and by
day, when an enemys cruiser is blockading a friendly belligerent, who
has sought the asylum in those waters accorded to him by the laws of
nations. I have, therefore, respectfully to req nest that you will keep a
watch, by means of guard boats, at both points of this harbor, to pre-
vent the repetition of the hostile act which was committed against me
last night; or, if you will not do this yourself, that you will permit me
to arm boats and capture the enemy, when so approaching me. It
would seem quite plain either that I should be protected or be permitted
to protect myself. Further, it is in plain violation of neutrality for the
enemy to be in daily communication with the shore whether by means
of his own boats, or boats from the shore. If he needs supplies, it is
his duty to come in Ior them, and if he comes in he must anchor,
and if he anchors he must accept the condition of remaining twenty.
four hours after my departure. It is a mere subterfuge for him to
remain in the offing and supply himself with all he needs, besides
reconnoitering me closely by means of boats, and I protest against this
act also.
	I trust you will excuse me for having occupied so much of your time
by so lengthy a communication, but I deem it my duty to place myself
right upon the record in this matter. I shall seize an early opportunity
to sail from these waters, and if I should be brought to a bloody conflict
with an enemy of twice my force, by means of signals given him in the
waters of France, either by his own boats or others, I wish my Govern-
ment to know that I protested against the unfriendly ground assumed
by the governor, that it does not enter into his intentions to exercise
toward the Iroquois, either by night or by day, so active a surveillance
as you [I] require.
I have the honor to be, etc.
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
M.	DUCHATEL [DUCHAXELI,
Commander of H. L 31. S. LAeheron.

[Enclosure F.l

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
St. Pierre, November 23, 1861.
	Sin: I have the honor to inform you that the pilot of the enemys
steamer Iroquois habitually spends his time on shore in this port, and
that last night he slept on board the enemys topsail schooner moored
near the beach, in the vicinity of the English bark Barracouta. I
have ample evidence outside of my ship to establish these facts. Now,
it must be obvious to you that the enemy has sent this man into French
waters to act as a spy upon my movements, and he has, no doubt, in
his possession rockets or other signals with which to communicate
my departure to his ship. This man, though only a pilot, aud tempo

Page 652

652 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

arily employed on board the Iroquois, is in law as much a~ officer of that
ship for the time being as any one of her lieutenants. The case, then,
may be stated thus: A lieutenant of the Iroquois not only spends his
time habitually on shore, but sleeps at night on board another vessel
of the enemy, instead of sleeping at a hotel, the better to enable him to
observe my movements and communicate them to his ship, and yet all
this is permitted by the authorities.
	I most respectfully but earnestly protest against this violation of my
rights. As I stated in my letter of yesterday, an act of reconnoissance
(and still more an act of reconnoissance for the purpose of giving infor-
mation by signal) is an act of war; and will France permit an act of
war to be committed against me in her own waters and under the eye
of her authorities, civil and military ~
	In conclusion, I request that you will issue an order requiring this
spy to depart to his ship, and that you will also take the proper steps
to prevent the schooner in which he slept from making any signals to
the enemy.
I have the honor to be, very respeetfally, etc.,
RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
M.	DUCHATEL [DUCHAXEL],
Commanding H. L ilL &#38; Acheron.

	NOTE.The Sumter went to sea from the port of St. Pierre on the
evening (8 oclock) of the date of the preceding letter, and, as was pre-
dicted, blue lights were burned on board the American schooner to sig-
nal her departure to the Iroquois.
R.	S.

[Enclosure G.]


C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Cadiz, January 5, 1861 [1862].
	Sin: I have had the honor to receive through the health officer of
the port an order from the Government of Spain directing me to pro-
ceed to sea within twenty-four hours. I am greatly surprised at this
unfriendly order. Although my Government has not yet been form-
ally recognized by Spain, it has been declared to be possessed of the
rights of a belligerent in the war in which it is engaged, and it is the
practice of all civilized nations to extend the hospitality of their ports
to the belligerents of both parties alike, whether the belligerents be
de facto or de jure. I am aware of the rule adopted by Spain, in
common with the other great powers, prohibiting belligerent cruis-
ers from bringing their prizes into her ports, but this rule I have
not violated. I have entered the harbor of Cadiz with my single ship
and I demand only the hospitality to which I am entitled by the laws
of nations, the Confederate States being one of the defacto nations of
the earth, by Spains own acknowledgment, as before stated. I am
sorry to be obliged to add, too, that my ship is in a crippled condition.
She is damaged in her hull, is leaking badly, is unseaworthy, and will
require to be docked and repaired before it will be possible for her to
proceed to sea. I am therefore constrained by the force of circum-
stances most respectfully to (lecline obedience to the order which I
have received until the neceAsary repairs can be made. Further, I
have on board 43 prisoners, confined within a small space, greatly to
their discomfort, and simple humanity would seem to dictate that 

Page 653

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	653

should be permitted to hand them over to the care of their consul on
shore without unnecessary delay.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
[I~APHAEL SEMMES,
Commander, C. ~. Navy.]
His Excellency the MILITARY GOVERNOR, Port of Cadiz, spain.


C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Cadiz, January 6, 1862.
	SIR: I have had the honor to receive your Excellencys note of to-day,
in which you inform me that the proceedings of the local authorities of
Cadiz, commanding me to proceed to sea within twenty-four hours, have
been overruled by the Government at Madrid, aiid that the Queen had
graciously permitted me to land my prisoners, and to remain to put
the necessary repairs on my ship. I)o me the favor to communicate to
her Majesty my thanks for her prompt and friendly action in the
premises.
	In the meantime, allow me most respectfully to protest against the
presence of the guard boat which has been placed in surveillance upon
my movements, as though I were an ordinary ship of commerce.
	Compliance with the laws of quarantine should be left with me as a
matter of honor, and the presence of this boat implies the suspicion
that a ship of war of a friendly power could so far forget herself as to
infringe the regulations of the port, a suspicion as unworthy the health
authorities of the port of Cadiz as it is offensive to me.
I have the honor to be, etc.
[RAPHAEL SEMMES,
Commander
Lieutenant IGNACLO MENDEZ DE VIGO,	, C. S. Navy.]
Military Governor of the Port of Cadiz.



RANSOM BOND OF THE SHIP MONTMORENCI, CAPTURED BY THE C. S. S.
SUMTER, COMMANDER SEMMES, C. S. NAVY, NOVEMBER 25, 1861.

	Know all men by these presents, that whereas the ship Montmorenci
of Bath, Me., was this day captured by the C. S. S. Sumter, in about the
latitude of 18~ 30 N. a~id the longitude of 580 40 W., and whereas I,
Joseph T. Brown, master of said ship, acting for myself and inthenames
and stead of the owners of said ship, to wit, William Rogers, William M.
Rogers, George M. Adams, and Joseph T. Brown, and desirous of ran-
soming said ship: Now, therefore, I, Joseph T. Brown, master of said
ship, for and in consideration of the release of said ship by the cap-
tors, which release is hereby acknowledged, am held and firmly bound,
and I do hereby bind the owners of said ship, to wit, William Rogers,
William M. Rogers, George M. Adams, and Joseph T. Brown, my and
their heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, unto the President
of the Confederate States of America for the time being, in the sum
of $20,000, current money of the said States, which sum I hereby sol-
emnly bind myself, the owners of the said ship, to wit, William Rogers,
William M. Rogers, George M. Adams, and Joseph T. Brown, and my
and their heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, well and truly
to pay to the said President of the Confederate states, within thirt

Page 654

654 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

days after the close of the present war between the United States and
the Confederate States of Anierica.
	Given this day under my hand and seal on board the C. S. S. &#38; tmter
this the 25th day of November, in the year of onr Lord 1861.
JOSEPH T. BROWN. [SEAL.]
	Witness:
W. BREEDLOVE SMITH.
	NOTE.The words acting for myself, interlined between the sixth
and seventh lines of the foregoing bond, were interlined before the
execution thereof.
W.	BREEDLOVE SMITH.


Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Captain Warden,
B. N., senior naval officer at Gibraltar, stating his intention to abid&#38; by the twenty-four-
hour rule while in that harbor.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, January 22,1862.
	SIR:	I have had the honor to receive yonr letter of this date, inform-
ing me that a question had been raised by the U. S. consul as to the
amount of protection to be afforded to the merchant vessels of the North-
ern States whilst the Sumter remains in the waters of Gibraltar; that
you had put yourself in communication with his Exceliency the gov-
ernor, and consulted the proper authorities, and that the following
conclusion had been reached, viz: That American merchant vessels
quitting Gibraltar whilst the Sumter is in the bay are entitled to a
start of twenty-four hours before being pursued with a hostile inten-
tion, and that it is the duty of the authorities concerned to see that
snch protection is extended over them.
	The rule above stated has certainly been well established as to ships
of war, though I do not recollect any case in which the same rule has
been applied to merchant shipping. I am free to admit, however, that
the reason of the rule, viz~ that the neutral port shall not be made
a station from which to carry on hostilities, applies as well to merchant
shipping as to men-of war. I can have no ground, therefore, on
which to dissent from the conclusion arrived at by the authorities of
Gibraltar. The Sumter will not pnrsue within twenty-four hours of her
departure any merchant vessel of the United States that may leave
the Bay of Gibraltar.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, etc.,
[It. SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
	Captain F. WARDEN, It  N.,
Senior Naval Officer, Gibraltar.


Detailed report of Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, of the move-
ments of that vessel from January 16 to 23, 1862.


C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, January 23, 1862.
	SIR:	In my last dispatch (No. 2), dated at Cadiz, I had the honor to
inform you that the Sumter had come out of dock at that place,
and that I was making preparations to repair her boilers and
machinery and her upper works. On the 16th instant I addressed 

Page 655

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	655

letter to the civil governor on this subject, a copy of which is annexed,
marked A. His reply thereto is also annexed, marked B.* From this
reply you will perceive that I was not only prohibited from bringing on
board any workman from the shore, but that 1 was informed that I
could not even remain in the port for the pnrpose of making any repairs
with my own force. About 9 p. m. of the same day on which I received
this communication an aid-de-camp of the military governor came on
board with a peremptory order for me to depart within six hours, and
with the request that I would state the reason, if any, which would pre-
vent my compliance with this order. In reply to this summons I
addressed a letter to the military governor, a copy of which is annexed,
marked C.
	The order to me to depart having been repeated to me the next
morning (17th), notwithstanding the reception of this letter by the gov-
ernor, I supposed that possibly the contents of the letter had not been
trnly translated to him, as I had been informed that his interpreter was
a relative of the U. S. consul. I therefore called in person, that I might
be snre that the Spanish Government was not acting under some mis-
take. Upon my entranco to the governors saloon I found him with his
interpreter by his side, prepared for my reception. I made known to
him that there was no necessity for an interpreter, and that, if he
pleased, we would address each other directly, as I had sufficient
knowledge of the Spanish for this purpose. I then repeated to him the
condition of my ship; that she was not only not in a condition to take
the sea, especially at this season of the year, but that even if she were,
I was unprovided with fuel, save only about forty-eight hours, and
further, that I was awaiting the momentary reception of funds from our
agents in London to supply myself with this necessary material. His
reply was that the dock authorities had pronounced my ship in a con-
dition to go to sea, and that he could not go behind their decision, and
that his orders were peremptory to cause me to depart. My rejoinder
to this was that the dock authorities had done nothing more than
examine and patch the bottom of my ship, declining to look at the
engine and boilers at all, on the ground that as dock men they had
nothing to do with anything but the hull of the ship, and that when
they pronounced her fit for sea they had reference to her hull alone;
that a steamer, unlike a sail ship, had something besides hull and spars
to look to, and that she was not in a seaworthy condition unless her
boilers and machinery were in good order.
	After a few minutes converaation of this nature I found that I was
conversing with a man who could entertain but one idea, and that was
that he had been ordered to send me to sea, and I therefore desired
him to telegraph the substance of my statements to him to the Madrid
Government, that 1 might be assured that it was the Government itself
which was acting in this matter. This he promised me to do, insisting,
however, that if no reply came before the expiration of the six hours I
should depart immediately, with or without funds and with or without
coal. I returned on board and caused my ship to be got ready for sea,
with the intention to run round to Gibraltar, distant only about 70
miles, for which I had sufficient coal on board. Just as I was heaving
up my anchor an official came off from the shore on the part of the mili-
tary governor to say to me that the Madrid Government had granted
me forty-eight hours more of delay, but that at the end of that time I
must depart without fail. The officer further stated that the governor
would communicate this decision to me in writing in a few minutes,

* Not found

Page 656

~656 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

and that he was directed to request that I would rcply to it in the same
manner. I stated to this gentleman that if the Madrid Government
had freely given me leave to remain until I was ready for sea I could
have appreciated its conduct and would have remained, but that I did
not choose to avail myself of the scant courtesy of being permitted to
remain only forty-eight hours, which might not be sufficient to enable
me even to receive funds and coal ship, and that as I was now ready
to depart I would proceed to some port where more consideration would
probably be shown me. I directed him further to say to his chief that
he need not take the trouble to communicate with me in writing, as I
could have no other reply to make than that which I had already given.
In an hour afterwards I was outside the port of Uadiz and had dis-
charged my pilot.
	The most mortifying part of my visit to Cadiz was that I had not
even funds enough to pay my dock bill to the Government, amounting
to about $200. When I went into dock I did not entertain a doubt
that long before I should be ready to go to sea I should be put in
funds by our commissioners in London, to whom I had telegraphed.
Indeed, on the 16th, the day I came out of dock, I received a telegram
from Mr. Yancey informing me that my request for funds would be
complied with. It was in reference to this telegram that I requested
permission to remain for funds. I explained this matter, however, to
the commandant of the dockyard, who assured me that he compre-
hended my position and that I must not give myself a thought on the
subject, and that whenever it was convenient I might remit him the
trifle in question. Whi]st I lay in the dock and in the harbor of (Jadiz
nine of my crew (all foreigners) deserted and took refuge with the U. S.
consul, that officer receiving them openly, providing a boarding house
for them, and paying their board. I do not think these men intended
originally to desert, but having gone on shore and got to drinking
they were no doubt seduced away by the consul or his emissaries. As
soon as the facts caine to my notice I demanded their surrender to me
in a letter addressed to the civil governor, a copy of which is annexed,
marked D. The reply to this demand is annexed, marked E.* The
commandant-general of the plaza, to whom I had been referred, in his
reply stated that he could not deliver the men to me for want of a
treaty, etc.; that the matter had been telegraphed to Madrid and he
had received no reply, etc., and here the matter ended.
	I left Cadiz on the evening of the 17th, and the next morning as I
entered the Strait of Gibraltar I descried a number of sail, two of
which I chased and captured. They were the U. S. barks Investigator
and Neapolitan. The former having an English cargo on board, I lib-
erated her under a ransom bond; the latter, laden with brimstone (50
tons) and fruit, I burned. The prisoners of both ships were paroled,
and the crew of the burned ship was transferred to the one which was
liberated. There were two grounds on which I condemned the cargo
of the Neapolitan; one, the spoliation of papers, the master not having
produced any paper whatever in relation to his cargo; and the other,
that the major part of the cargo being contraband, and the whole cargo
belonging to the same owners, according to the masters statement (the
Baring Brothers, of Lou don, though the ship was bound to Boston), the
noxious articles infected the innocent and rendered the whole subject
to condemnation. I have been received with much courtesy at Gibral-
tar, and have had the hospitality of the port freely extended to me for
the purpose of repairing my ship, etc. I have had a conversation with

Not found

Page 657

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	657

the governor on the subject of neutral and belligerent rights, and I am
happy to say there is no difference of opinion between us on these sub-
jects. I am anxiously awaiting the transmission of funds from London.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
[R. SEMMES,

Commander
	Hon. S. R. MALLORY,	, C. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Richmond, Va.

[Enclosure A.]
C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Cadiz, January 16, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you that, having come out of dock
yesterday, I have anchored my ship in the upper bay for the conven-
ience of calking her bends just above the copper, where her seams are
open, of repairing her pumps, and putting her engine in order. All
these repairs, which are essential to put my ship in a seaworthy condi-
tion, I will make, with the assistance of private mechanics from the
shore, and with the utmost dispatch. Your Excellency can not be more
desirous that I should accelerate these operations than I am myself, for
every day that I remain in port is a day lost to me, and perhaps a ship
saved to the enemy.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully,
[R. SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]

	Excelentisimo Seiior Don Y. MENDEZ DE YIO-o,
Civil Governor, Cadiz.
[Enclosure C.]
C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Cadiz, January 16, 1862.
	SIR: I have received your request, communicated to me through
your aid-dc-camp, desiring me to state whether I am in a condition to
proceed to sea, and if not, to state the reasons why I am not. I had
the hon6r to state these reasons in a letter addressed to the civil gov-
ernor of the province this morning. I repeat them here.
	The condenser and boilers of my engine are in such a condition that
it would be unsafe for inc to carry a head of steam. They require some
repairs, which, with the aid of two or three workmeu from the shore, I
could accomplish in five days, but if I am forced to rely upon my own
resources a couple of weeks will be necessary. I have been six months
almost constantly cruising, and hence you will easily understand how
these repairs have come to be necessary. The only repairs which
were l)ut upon my ship during the two days that she remained in the
(lock at [La] Carraca were put upon her bottom, no repairs having
been put upon my condenser or boilers, although I requested it. My
two bilge pumps are also worn out and it is necessary to replace them,
for if any accident should happen to my steam pumps it would be
impossible to keep my ship free from water. She requires calking, toe,
in her bends, justabovethecopper, whercher seams arc open. I amalso
without the necessary supply of coal, and I am in daily expectation of the
receipt of funds from London to purchase this indispensable material
my agent having telegraphed mc yesterday that he would transmit them
to me immediately. I do not propo5e or expect to make any alterations
in my ship or to put any iiew work upon her, but only to repair the
damages which I have received at sea, so as to render it safe for me to
	123 A.	4

Page 658

658 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

expose myself at this season of the year to such weather as I must of
necessity encounter. The Government of Spain can not be more anx-
ious to have me depart than I am myself to do so. I avail myself of the
present opportunity to say to you that eight of my seamen deserted
from my ship whilst she was in dock at [La] Carraca, and are screened
and protected by the U. S. consul. I respectfully request that these
men may be delivered up to inc. Will you do me the favor to telegraph
this dispatch at length to the minister of war in Madrid ~
I have the honor to be,
[R. SEMMES,
Commander, C. ~. Navy.]
His Excellency the MILITARY GOVERNOR,
Cadiz.
[Enclosure D.]

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Cadiz, January 16, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you that while my ship was in tile
dock at [La] Carraca eight of my seamen deserted, and I am informed
that they arc sheltered and protected by the U. S. consul. I respect-
fully request that you will cause these men to be delivered to me; and
to disembarrass this demand of any difficulty that my seem to attend
jt, permit me to make the following observations:
	1.	In the first place my Government has been recognized as a de
facto Government by Spain, and as such to be entitled to all tile rights
of a belligerent in its war with the Government of the Northern States
of the late American Union.
	2.	All the rights and privileges, therefore which would attach to the
flag of the United States, should one of their ships enter this harbor,
equally attach to mine, save only mere ceremonies, such as saluting,
etc.
	3.	It has been and is the uniform custom of all nations to arrest and
hand over to their proper officers deserters from ships of war, and this
without stopping to enquire as to the nationality of the deserter.
	4.	If this is the practice in peace, much more necessary does such
a practice become in war, since otherwise the operations of war
remote, it is true, but still the operations of warwould be tolerated
in a neutral territory.
	5.	Without a violation of neutrality, an enemys consul in a neutral
territory can not be permitted to entice away seamen from a ship of the
opposite belligerent, or to shelter or protect the same; for, if he is per-
nutted to do this, then his domicile becomes an enemys camp in a neu-
tral territory.
	6.	With reference to the question in hand, I respectfully submit that
the only facts which your Excellency can take cognizance of are that
these deserters entered the waters of Spain under my flag, and that
they formed a part of my crew. The enquiry can not pass a step
beyond, and Spain can not undertake to enquire as between the U. S.
consul and myself, to which of us the deserters in question more prop
erly belong. Such a course would be tantamount to an interposition
between two belligerents, and it would be destructive of the essential
rights of ships of war in foreign ports, as well in peace as in war.
	7.	I am willing to admit that if a Spanish subject serving under my
flag should escape to the shore, and should satisfy the authorities that
he wa s held by me by force, and either without contract or in violation
of contract, that he might be set at liberty, but such is not the presen

Page 659

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	659

case. The nationality of the (leserters not being Spanish, Spain can
not, as I said before, enquire into it. To conclude, the case which I
present is simply this: Several of my crew, serving on board my ship
under voluntary contracts, have deserted and taken refuge in the con-
sulate of the United States. To deprive me of the power, with the
assistance of the police, to recapture these men would convert the con-
sulate into a camp, and the cousni would be permitted to exercise the
right of a belligerent on neutral territory.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
[R. SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.l
Exce~entisiino Sefior Don Y. MENDEZ BE VIGO,
Civil Governor, Cadiz.


RANSOM BOND OF THE BARK INVESTIGATOR, CAPTURED BY THE C.
5. 5. SUMTER, JANUARY 18, 1862.

	Know all men by these presents, that whereas the bark Investigator,
of Searsport, Me., was this day captured by the C. S. S. Sumter in the
Strait of Gibraltar, about ~ miles from Gibraltar; and whereas I, Charles
G. Carver, master of said bark, acting for myself, and in the names
and stead of the owners of said bark to wit Charles G. Carver, of
Searsport, Me.; P. Pendleton, of Searsp~rt, Me.; John C arver, of Sears-
port, Me.; Isaac Carver, of Searsport, Me,, and Benjamin Carver, of New
York City, am desirous of ransoming said bark: Now, therefore, I
Charles G. Carver, master of said bark, for and in consideration of the
release of said bark by the captors, which release is hereby acknowl-
edged, am held and firnily bound, and I do hereby bind the owners of
said bark, to wit, Charles G. Carver, P. Pendleton, John Carver, Isaac
Carver, and Benjamin Carver, my and their heirs~ executors, adminis-
trators, and assigns unto the President of the Confederate States of
America for the time being, in the sum of $11,250, current money of
the said. States, which 5 urn I hereby solemnly bind myself; the owners
of the said bark, to wit, Charles G. Carver, P. Pendleton, John Car-
ver, Isaac Carver, and Benjamin Carver, and my and their heirs, exec-
ntors, administrators, and assigns well and truly to pay to the said
President of the Confederate States within thirty (lays after the close
of the present war between the United States and the Confederate
States of America.
	Given this day under my hand and seal, on board the C. S. S. Sumter,
this the 18th day of January, in the year of our Lord 1862.
C.	G. CARVER. [SEAL.]
	Witness:
W.	BREEDLOVE SMITH.



Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Hon. ~f. N.
Mason, C. S. commissioner, London, requesting a supply of funds.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay o,,f Gibraltar, January 24, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you that my ship is at this place,
awaiting funds for necessary repairs and for the purchase of fuel, etc.
I have communicated with the Hon. Win. L. Yancey on the subject, an

Page 660

660 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.


in a letter tome, of the (late of the 14th instant, that gentleman informed
me that the house of Fraser, Trenhoim &#38; Co., of Liverpool, will supply
me with funds upon my requisition, endorsed by the commissioner of
the Confederate States. I enclose herewith a draft for the sum of
$20,000, drawn upon the above mentioned house, which I request you
will have the goodness to endorse. The transmission of funds to me is
of absolute necessity to enable inc to take the sea, and it would be an
event very much to be deplored if the ciuise of the Sumter should be
cut short at this stage of the war for the want of few thousand (tol-
lars. My crew is in want of clothing also, and I have written to Lieu-
tenant Jas. 1-1. ~ortlm, of the Navy, 110w in London, on this subject,
requesting him to sen(l me a su~)ply. Will you be pleased to give your
sanction to this measure also ~ I understand from Mr. Yancey that these
things can be procured without money or on a credit. They can be
shipped to me by steamer direct to this place. The crippled condition
of my ship and the want of funds have deprived me of the power of
scouring the Med iterranean, the whole of which sea I could have swept
without molestation in from fi fteeu to twenty days, Thereas it is now
to be feared that before 1 can prepare myself for such a cruise the
enemy will be present in some force. Be pleased to accelerate the
transmission of the sum drawn for, as before I have intelligence of my
abiitv to draw on some banker I can not strike the first lick toward
repairing my ship.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
[It. SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
Hon. J. M. MASON,
Commissioner of the Confederate States, London.


Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to her British
Majestys colonial secretary at Gibraltar, acknowledging instructions regarding the twenty-
four-hour rule.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, January 28, 1862.
	SIR:	I have had the honor to receive your note of this date, written
by direction of his Excellency the governor of Gibraltar, informing me
that her Majesty has directed, in accordance with a long-established
European practice, that no ship of war, privateer, or other armed vessel
belonging to either of the belligerents, which shall anchor in any British
port, shall be allowed to quit her anchorage within twenty-four hours
after any vessel belonging to the adverse belligerent, whether armed or
unarmed, shall have left the same port.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	[It. SEMMES,
	S. FREELING, Esq.,	Commander, C. S. Navy.]
Colonial Secretary.

Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to her British
Majestys colonial secretary at Gibraltar, complaining of the conduct of the U. S. consul
at that place.

C.	S.S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, February 10, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to state for the information of his Excellency
the governor of Gibraltar that I ani informed amid believe that the
U. S. consul at this place has, by means of his emissaries, tampere

Page 661

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.
661
with and seduced from their allegiance several of the crew of my ship
who have visited the shore on liberty. The impropriety and illegality
of such conduct are so manifest that I take it for granted his Excel-
lency will interpose his authority for my protection.
	Great Britain having proclaimed a strict neutrality in the war now
pending between the United States and the Confederate States, is
under the obligation, I respectfully suggest, not only to abstain her-
self from any unneutral conduct, but to see that all persons whatsoever
within her doininions so abstain. No act of war, proximate or remote,
should be tolerated in her waters by the one belligerent against the
other, or by any citizen or resident against either belligerent. His
Excellency will doubtless concur with me in the justice and propriety
of the rule thus stated. To apply this rule to the present case: Being
prompted by motives of humanity to send my crew on shore in small
detachments for exercise and recreation, after a long confinement on
shipboard, my enemy, the U. S. consul, sends his agents among them
and by specious pretenses persuades them to desert their ship and
take refuge under his consular flag. This has been done in the case of
the following seamen, viz: Everett Salmon, John G. Jenkins, Thomas
F. Penny, and perhaps others. Here is an act of war perpetrated
against me in neutral territory, and the consular residence or office has
become quo ad hoc a hostile camp. And this conduct is the more
obectionable in that the nationality of most of these men is not
American.
	His Excellency, as a soldier, knows that no crime is regarded with
greater detestation in the present civilized age of the world than the
one here described. As between contending armies in the field an
offender caught in the perpetration of such an act would be subjected
to instant death, and this not only because the act is an act of war,
but because it is a dishonorable act of war. And can an enemy make
use of neutral territory to do that which would subject him to an igno-
minious death if he were without such territory and within reach of
the opposite belligerent~ When my men come within his Excellencys
jurisdiction I lose all control over them, and must rely upon his comity
to regain possession of them. If they leave me of their own free will,
in the absence of the recognition of my Government and of treaty stip-
ulation, perhaps I have no remedy. But when I permit them to go on
shore and cuter the jurisdiction of a neutral and friendly power, I do so
with the just expectation that they will receive the shelter and pro-
tection of the neutral hag, and that they will not be permitted to be
run off by my enemy, and to wheedle and entice a sailor from his ship,
and that, too, when perhaps he is half drunk, is little better than kid-
napping him. In the present case the violation of the neutral jurisdic-
tion is as complete as if the consul had seized my men by force, for he
has accomplished the same object, to wit, weakening his enemy by
stratagem, a stratagem practiced by one belligerent against another.
	If this act had been committed by a military or naval officer of the
enemy, transiently within the limits of Gibraltar, every one would have
been surprised at it, and would have exclaimed against it as a flagrant
violation of the laws of nations, and is the offense of less magnitude
when committed by a consul, who is peculiarly favored by the laws of
nations as an officer of peace and one whose pursuits lie wholly in
the walks of commerce~ Mr. Sprague, the U. S. consul, is a gentle-
man whom I have heard favorably spoken of, and it is barely possible
I may do him injustice in imputing to him the conduct described, but
the evidence comes to me in a very satisfactory shape, and I shall b

Page 662

662 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

ready to produce it if the allegation be denied. Should the proof be
made out to his Excellencys satisfaction, I shall deem it my duty to
request that the consul be suspended from his functions, and that
the question of withdrawing his exequatur be referred to the British
Government.
I have the honor, etc.,
[R. SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Na~y.i
Captain S. FREELINQ
Colonial Secretary.


Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Hon. 3. IV!. ITason,
C.	S. commissioner at London, relative to making repairs and obtaining coal at Gibraltar.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, February 11, 18G2.
	SIR:	I have had the honor to receive yonr telegram of the 2d instant
and your letter of the previous day, enclosing a slip from the Times
containing the recent order of Lord IRussell on the sulz~ject of the stay
in British ports of belligerent cruisers, etc. By the enclosed copy of a
survey made by my officers you will perceive that my boilers and con-
denser have about given out, and that nearly the whole of the upper
works of my ship are rotten, so that I am hors de combat without exten-
sive repairs. There are neither docks nor machine shops at this place,
and the most I can do is to patch up to the best advantage with my
own tools and force ,so as to enable me to reach a port where I can
have the repairs made indicated in the report. I think of going either
to an English or a French port for this purpose. At present I am
detained here for want of coal. A combination of merchauts prevents
me from purchasing it iu the market, and the Government has refused
to supply me, though I am not without hope of inducing the latter to
give ground. Should you not have seen a telegram of my departure
when this reaches you will you be pleased to refer the question of my
being coaled by the authorities here to the Government in London.
The enclosed copy of a letter* addressed by me to Captain Warden,
R. N., will give you the facts of the case and the reasons assigned why
I should be coaled.
I have the honor to be, very respectfnlly, your obedient servant,
iR.	SEMiVIES,
Commander.
Hon. J. M. MASON,
Commissioner Confederate States,
Fentons Hotel, St. James Street, London, ~ngland.


Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to IVLessrs. Fr~ser,
Trenholm &#38; Co., acknowledging receipt of fnnds.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, February 11, 18G2.
	GENTLEMEN:	I have received your letter of the 3d nltimo, with its
enclosures, to wit, a letter of credit on your house for the sum of 3,200
sterling, and triplicate bills on the Secretary of the Navy for the sum

~Sec p. 654

Page 663

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	663

of $20,000, the latter sum being intended to cover the sum mentioned
in the letter of credit and the sum of $4,000 advanced to Captain
North for the purchase of clothing for this ship. I have drawn upon
you for the sum authorized, in four sets of bills, and have signed and
enclose herewith the triplicate bills on the Secretary of the Navy. Be
pleased to return the original draft for $20,000 to Mr. Mason. I owe
you many thanks, gentlemen, for the prompt maimer in which you have
come to the aid of our beloved country, and for the very kind expres-
sions which you are pleased to use in reference to my poor services.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, etc.,
[Ii. SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
Messrs. FRASER, TRENHOLM &#38; Co.,
Liverpool, England.



Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Hon. 3. M.
Mason, C. S. commissioner at London, stating the useless condition of that vessel.


C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, February 24, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to enclose for transmission to the honorable
Secretary of the Navy a dispatch informing him of the conditiou of my
ship, and asking for orders. After having patched my boilers for the
purpose of endeavoring to reach some port in the English Channel,
where my ship could be taken in hand in a dockyard for the purpose of
a general overhauling, I caused steam to be gotten up, when, to my
regret and somewhat to my surprise, it was ascertained that the boilers
would not stand even the low pressure of 12 pounds. As you
will perceive by a perusal of the enclosed dispatch to the Secretary
of the Navy, a commission of my officers, including the engineer, who
is a very competent and indeed skillful machinist, has condemned the
boilers as unfit for further use. They would not probably run me to
Southampton in a time of peace, when I could stop every day or two,
if necessary, for repairs, and it would be folly to attempt such a run
in the face of the enemy, two of whose fast steamers are now lying in
this bay (on the Spanish side) and others expected, being in neighbor-
ing waters.
	In this emergency I have asked, as you will perceive, to lay the
$umt~r up in charge of a midshipman and a boats crew until the end
of the war, when she might be taken without difficulty to a port of
repair. But as some considerable time must necessarily elapse before
the Secretary of the Navy can be heard from, and as possibly some use
could be made of my self; my officers, and mcii in the meantime, I
should be glad to have you act in the matter if you feel yourself
authorized. There is not much discretion, indeed, to be exercised by
anyone. The boilers of the ship being burned out she is incapable
of locomotion, and there would seem to be but one of two things to be
done, either to sell her or lay her up. An attempt to sell her, were
that permitted, which is doubtful, would result in her sacrifice. To
lay her up, then, seems to be the most judicious alternative. For the
small force which it would be necessary to leave on board of her she
has an ample supply of provisions for twelve mouths, so that the
expense of her custody would be very small. At the end of the war
she might be made as good as a new ship at about half the cost of 

Page 664

664 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.


new one. And then you must pardon me for having some attachment
for her and for her name, which I should be glad to see retained in the
service. Lieutenant North wrote to me some few weeks ago, inform-
ing me that there was a new ship nearly completed for us at Liverpool.
I should like, if possible, and if my claims do not interfere with those
of other officers available, to be transferred with my remaining officers
and men to that ship, if it is possible by any means to equip her and
get her to sea.
	Do me the favor to write to me as soon as convenient, giving me your
views and advice, and also any orders as to the final disposition of my
ship which you may feel at liberty to give. If you think a personal
conference with you would in any way advance the inteiests of our
cause and country, intimate as much to me by telegraph or by letter
and I will be with you without delay. You will be astonished, no
doubt, at the news of the imprisonment of my paymaster in the Yankee
consuls house at Tangier, in Morocco, as detailed in my letter to the
Secretary of the Navy. I think [I] shall have no trouble in getting
him released. The governor of Gibraltar sent his secretary over to
Tangier yesterday, and although his official position prevents his say-
lug as much to me, I have no doubt it was npon this business. If,
contrary to all reasonable expectation, the prisoners should not be
promptly released, I will write to you again on the subject, that you
may speak to Lord Russell about it. Morocco just now, because of the
guarantee of her loan by Great Britain, is, of course, anxious to please
her patron, and an unofficial word from the British foreign secretary
will be all powerful with her. Is not this proceeding of the Yankee
consul a shame upon the civilization of the age ~ I blush to think that
we have ever been connected in the same Government with such men.
1 have the honor, etc.,
[R. SEMMES,

Commander, C. S. Nary.]
	Hon. J. M. MASON.


Report of Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, of the useless condi-
tion of that vessel, and seeking instructions.


C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, February 24, 1862.
	SIR: My last dispatch, No. 3, dated at this place, of the 23d of Jan-
uary last, and forwarded to you through Mr. iVlason in London, iRforms
you that the Sumter was awaiting the arrival of funds with which to
repair, etc. Since that date and with a view to repairs I have ordered
a commission of survey upon the ship, consisting of the first and second
lieutenants and the chief engineer (copy of order annexed, marked A);
a copy of the report of these gentlemen is annexed, marked B. From
this report it appeared that both the hull and boilers of the ship were
in a much worse condition than I had supposed. Indeed, the boilers
were about burned out. The most that I could hope to accomplish
would be to patch them so as to enable me to run under low pressure
of steam to some English or French port, where I might find work-
shops and other means of repair. I gave orders accordingly, and sev-
eral patches and other repairs were put upon them.
	flaying accomplished this, and funds having reached me (through
the house of Fraser, Trenholm &#38; Co., of Liverpool, who negotiated a
bill drawn by me on the Y avy Department for the sum of $20,000), o

Page 665

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	665

the 8th of February I sent the paymaster on shore to purchase a sup-
ply of coal. Very much to his surprise, as to my own, he found the
market closed against him by a combination of merchants, brought
about by the U. S. consul. Upon finding it impossible to supply myself
in the market, on the 11th of February I addressed a letter (copy
annexed, marked C) to the commanding naval officer, requesting him
to supply me from the dockyard. This he declined to do nuder his
instructions, but being personally disposed to oblige me, and thinking
the case a peculiar one, he telegraphed the facts to the admiralty in
London and asked for special instructions on the sub~ject. The admi-
ralty declined to authorize him to supply me. Upon learning this final
determination of the British Government there was no other course
open to me but to endeavor to have coal sent to me from some neigh-
boring port. With this view, on the 19th instant I dispatched [the]
paymaster of this ship for Cadiz. Mr. T. T. Tunstall, a citizen of the
Confederate States, and who had been several years previous to the
war U. S. consul in Cadiz, being in Gibraltar, volunteered to accom-
pany Mr. Myers. They took a French passenger steamer, and the
steamer having stopped on her way at Tangier, in the Empire of
Morocco, for a few hours, they went on shore for a walk, and as they
were returning to the mole to reembark they were suddenly seized by
Moorish soldiery and marched to the U. S. consular residence, where
they were heavily ironed and imprisoned.
	As soon as I heard of this outrage I addressed a letter to the gov-
ernor of Gibraltar, asking his friendly interposition (copy annexed,
marked ID), and on the next day I dispatched a demand for the release
of the prisoners to the governor of Tangier, through Mr. Hay, the Brit-
ish chargd resident at that place (copy annexed, niarked E). I am in
hourly expectation of receiving a reply from the governor of Morocco.
On Sunday morning, the 23d instant, having gotten up steam for the
purpose of shifting my berth, a pressure of 12 pounds only caused my
boilers again to give way, and in a place not hitherto supposed to be
defective. I caused the steam to be blown off, and this morning I have
had the boilers reexamined by the commission of survey. Their report
is annexed, marked F.
	From this report yoa will regret to learn that the boilers have been
condemned as unfit for further service. We can not even rely upon
them for the short run of which it was supposed they might be made
capable in the first report (B). In this unfortunate condition of affairs,
what is to be done~ The hull of the ship below her gun deck is believed
to be sound. With a new gun deck, therefore, new upper works, and
new boilers she would be nearly as good as a new ship. Will the
Department direct her to be laid up in this port in charge of one of the
midshipmen and a boats crew, until the end of the war, when she may
be taken to Southampton or some other British port for repairs l This
is the course I would respectfully recommend. In time of peace she
might be gotten round to Southampton under sail, aided to some extent,
it may be, by he~ crippled steam power. Such of the crew (being for-
eigners) as prefer it, I wonld recommend to be discharged, and the offi-
cers and the remainder of the crew might be held available for another
ship, if it be possible to procure one for them in Europe; or they might
be directed to return home, whichever the Department might think
best. The total number of my crew has been reduced by desertion to
fifty-seven seamen and marines. The Department will be equally sur-
prised, no donbt, with myself to find that the boilers of the ship have
given out after less than a years service, but I understand that th

Page 666

666 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

board of officers who originally examined the ship with reference to her
purchase by the Government did not examine, or cause to be examined,
her boilers and machinery.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, etc.,
[H. SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
	Hon. S. lEt. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy, Richmond, Va.
	P. S.Two of the enemys steamers, the Tuscarora and another,
arrived last night, narn&#38; not yet ascertained, are anchored in Spanish
waters on the opposite side of the bay, and several others are expected,
three, to wit, the Dacotah, the ill ohican, and the Mystic, having been in
Teneriffe a few days ago, in pursuit of us. I have taken the necessary
precaution to prevent our crippled condition from becoming known to
the enemy, that I may occupy the attention of as many of his cruisers
as possible.
Jlt.S.
[Enclosure A.1


C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, January 23, 1862.
	GENTLEMEN: You will hold a survey on the boilers and machinery
of this ship and report to me the extent to which they will require to
be repaired to enable her to continue her cruise. You will also examine
the upper works of the ship and state to me how they may be strength-
ened and secured with as little expense as possible to render her sea-
worthy.
1 have the honor to be, etc.,
[It. SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
Lieutenants J. M. KELL and It. T. CHAPMAN, First Assistant Engi-
neer M. J. FREEMAN.

[Enclosure B.]


C.	S.S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, Januai y 28, 1862.
	SIR: In obedience to your order, we have held a survey on the boil-
ers and m~achinery of this ship, and have to report as follows:
	That the boilers must be lifted from their beds, requiring new arches
and new legs, and other repairs, that can not be done with the facili-
ties we have on board.
	The machinery requires a thorough overhauling at a machine shop
where proper mechanics and tools can be had. The condenser requires
to be lifted and taken from its berth, which involves the removal of
the hot-well air-pump and other parts of the machinery. The boilers
are very defective in two or three places that can not be got at, unless
they are lifted from their beds, and are liable at any time to give way;
the other parts of the machinery can be patched in a week, to m akea
run of four or five days, if no other than a very low press of steam is
required. With regard to the upper works of the ship, it is out opin-
ion that she can not be made seaworthy unless the whole be removed,
as they are rotten, both in the planking and in the ends of the beams,
and if a heavy sea strikes her all of the upper works must give way

Page 667

	OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	667

In examining her hull, we find several of the knees started on the star-
board side forward, also that the two planks jnst above the copper are
so worm-eaten that in some places it will not bear the driving of the
calki ng iron. It is oar opinion that wherever these planks are so
thoroughly honeycombed by the worm, they should be removed and
new only put in before she can be pronounced seaworthy. We would
recommend that after these new planks are put in, she be coppered
two streaks higher up.
We have the honor to be, your obedient servants,
JOHN MCINTOSH KELL,
Lieutenant, C. S. Navy.
B.	T. CHAPMAN,
Lieutenant, C. S. Navy.
M.	J. FREEMAN,
Engineer, C. S. Navy.
Commander B. SEMMES, C. S. Navy,
Commanding C. S. S. Sumter.

[Enclosure C.]


C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, February 10, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you that I have made every effort
to procure a supply of coal, without success. The British and other
merchants of Gibra~ltar, instigated, I learn, by the U. S. consul, have
entered into the unneutral combination of declining to furnish the
Sumter with coal on any terms. Under these circumstances, I trust the
Government of her Majesty will find no difficulty in supplying me. By
the recent letter of Earl Russell (January 31, 1862) it is not incon-
sistent with neutrality for a belligerent to supply herself with coal in
a British port. In other words, the article has been pronounced like
provisions, innoxious, and this being the case it can make no difference
whether it be supplied by the Government or an individual (the Gov-
ernment being reimbursed the expense), and this even though the
market was open to me; much more then may the Government supply
me with an innocent article, the market not being open to me. Sup-
pose I had come into port destitute of provisions, and the same illegal
combination had shut me out from the market, would the British Gov-
ernment permit my crew to starve? Or suppose I had been a sail
ship, and had come in dismasted and the dockyard was the only place
where I could be refitted, would you have denied me a mast? And if
you would not deny me a mast, on what principle will you deny me
coal, both articles being declared by your Government to be innoxious.
The true criterion is not whether the Government or an individual may
snpply the article, but whether the article itself is noxious or innoxious.
The Government may not supply me with powder; why? Not because
I may have recourse to the market, but because the article is noxious.
A case in point occurred when I was in Cadiz, recently. My ship was
admitted into a Government dock and there repaired, firstly, because
the repairs were innocent, and secondly, because there were no private
docks in Cadiz. So here, the article is innocent, and there is none in
the market (accessible to me); why may not the Government supply
me? In conclusion, I respectfully request that you will supply me
with 150 tons of coal, for which I will pay the cash; or, if you prefer it,
I will deposit the money with an agent, who can have no difficulty, 

Page 668

668 OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

suppose, in purchasing the same amount of the material from some one
of the hulks and returning it to her Majestys dockyard.
I have the honor to be, very respectiully, your obedient servant,
lit. SEMMES,
Commander.
Captain FREDERiCK WARDEN, lit. N.,
Senior Naval Officer, Gibraltar.

[Enclosure ID.]


C.	S. S. SUMTER,
ilay of Gibraltar, February 22, 1862.
	SiR:	I have the honor to ask the good offices of his Excellency the
governor of Gibraltar, in a matter purely my own. On Wednesday
last I dispatched from this port, in a French passenger steamer for
Cadiz, onb usiness connected with this ship, my paymaster, Mr. Henry
Myers, and Mr. T. T. Tunstall, a citizen of the Confederate States and
ex-U. S. consul at Cadiz. The steamer having stopped on her way at
Tangier, and these gentlemen having gone on shore for a walk during
her temporary delay there, they were seized by the authorities at the
instigation of the U. S. consul and imprisoned. A note from Paymas-
ter Myers informs me they are both heavily ironed and otherwise
treated in a barbarous manner.
	I learn further that the pretense upon which the unlawful proceed-
ing was had is that it is authorized by treaty stipulation with the
United States. Unfortunately, I have not a copy of this treaty in my
possession, but I presume it provides in the usual form for the extradi-
tion of criminals and nothing more. I need not say to his Excellency
that treaties of this description are never applied to political offenders,
which, I presnme, is the only category in which the U. S. consul pre-
tends to place these two gentlemen. An occurrence of this kind could
not have happened, of conrse,in a civilized community. The political
ignorance of the Moorish Government has been shamefully practiced
upon by the unscrupulous consul. I understand that the British Gov-
ernment has a diplomatic agent resident at Tangier, and a word from
that gentleman would, no doubt, set the matter right and insure the
release of the unfortunate prisoners. And it is to interest this gentleman
in this humane task that I address myself to his Excellency. May I not
ask the favor of his Excellency, under the l)eculiar circumstances of the
case, to address Mr. Hay a note on the subject, explaining to him the
facts and requesting his interposition ~ If any official scruples present
themselves, the thing might be done in his character as a private gen-
tleman. The Moorish Government would not hesitate a moment if it
understood correctly the facts and principles of the case, to wit, that
the principal powers of Europe have recognized the Confederate Statcs
as belligerents in their war against the United States, and that con-
sequently the act of making war against these States by the citizens
of the Confederate States is not an offense, political or otherwise, of
which a neutral can take cognizance, and even if it were the former, no
extradition treaty is ever meant to apply to such a case.
I have the honor, etc.,
[It. SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.j
Captain S. FREELIN~,
Colonial Secretary

Page 669

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	669

[Enclosure E.]

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, February 23, 1862.
	[SIR:] I have the honor to inform your Excellency that intelligence
has reached me of the imprisonment, by the Moorish Government, at
Tangier, of Mr. Henry Myers, the paymaster of this ship, and Mr. T.
T. Tunstall, a citizen of the Confederate States and late U. S. consul
at Cadiz. I learn further that these gentlemen are heavily ironed and
otherwise treated with inhumanity. I aiim utterly at a loss to conceive
on what grounds this illegal imprisonment can have taken place,
though 1 learn that the U. S. consul demanded it under some claim of
extradition treaty stipulation. A word or two will suffice to set this
matter right. It must, of course, be known to your Excellency that the
Confederate States have been acknowledged by the principal powers
of Europe as belligerents in the war in which they are engaged with
the United States, and that consequently the paymaster of this ship,
in any act of war in which he may have participated, can l]ave been
guilty of no offense, political or otherwise, of which any neutral power
can take cognizance. Indeed, as before stated, the neutral powers of
Europe have expressly recognized the right of the Confederate States
to make war against the United States. No extradition treaty, there-
fore, can apply to Paymaster Myers. Mr. Tunstall, not being in the
military or naval service of the Confederate States, can no more be
brought within the terms of any such treaty than Paymaster Myers.
I have, therefore, respectfully to demand in the name of my Govern-
ment, and in accordance with the laws and practice of nations, that
these two citizens of the Confederate States be set at liberty.
I have the honor, etc.,
[It. SEMMES,
Commander, C. ~. Navy.]
	His Excellency the GOVERNOR OF TANGIER,
Morocco.
[Enclosure F.]

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, February 24, 1862.
	SIR: In obedience to your verbal order of yesterday, to examine
again the boilers of this ship, we have to report as follows: Since our
survey of the 28th ultimo, steam was gotten up yesterday for the first
time, and with a pressure of 12 pounds only, two heavy leaks sprung
from a hard l)atch put on in New Orleans, which was apparently in
sound condition before the fires were started. This leak was so great
as to put out the fires in one of the furnaces, and from examination we
have every reason to believe other parts of the boilers far more defect-
ive. With a pressure of 12 pounds of steam it is more than probable
that other leaks will show themselves, wlmich would at once cripple the
ship. We therefore condemn the boilers as unfit for service.
We have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servants,
JOHN M. KELL,
Lieutenant.
It. T. CHAPMAN,
Lieutenant.
N.	J. FREEMAN,
Engineer.
	Commander It. SEMMES,
C.	S. AS. Sumter

Page 670

670 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUlSERSCONFEDERATE.


Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Hon. 3. M.
Mason, C. S. commissioner at London, giving facts in the case of the arrest of Paymaster
Myers, C. S. Navy.

C.	S. S. SUMTER, February 26, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you that since the date of my last
letter to you, the facts in the case of the arrest of Paymaster Myers
have assumed a more definite shape. They are briefly as follows: Upon
returning to the French packet steamer lying in the bay of Tangier he
was arrested by Moorish soldiers upon the requisition of the U. S. con-
sul, who claimed jurisdiction over him as a citizen of the United States
under a treaty with Morocco. In my letter to you of the 24th instant
I enclosed copies of letters which I had addressed to the governors of
Tangier and Gibraltar on the subject. I now send you annexed copies
of letters,* marked A and B, which have since passed between Mr. Hay,
the British charge resident at Tangier, aiid myself These letters,
together with those already sent, will put you in possession of all the
facts of the case, prominent among which is the apparent apathy and
indifference of the diplomatic officers whose mediation had been asked
in the absence of the recognition of our Government and of an agent
of our own. Notwithstanding the strong precedent established by all
Europe in the Trent affair as to the legality and propriety of friendly
interference between a neutral and a belligerent to preserve the peace,
Mr. Hay has deemed it his duty not only to preserve silence, but to
take especial pains to make his silence known to the Government of
Morocco.
I have the honor, etc.~
[B. SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.
Hon. J. M. MASON,
Commissioner Confederate States, London.



Letter from the Secretary of the Navy of the Confederate States to Hon. 3. M. Mason, C. S.
commissioner at London, transmitting letter of credit for the use of the commander of the
C. S. S. Sumter.

CONFEDERATE STATES OF AMERICA,
Navy Department, Biehmond, ]iiliareh 1, 1862.
	SIR:	I observe from the public newspapers that the C. S. war steamer
Sumter is now at St. Hoche [Roque], a Spanish port, and that her com-
mander is without funds, and I take the liberty of enclosing herewith
a letter of credit in favor of her paymaster, Henry Myers, C. S. Navy,
on the house of Fraser, Trenholm &#38; Co., of Liverpool, for 6,OO(), which
I will thank you to transmit to him upon learning the port at which the
steamer may be when you receive this letter, or inform him that you
have in your possession the letter of credit.
	The urgent necessities of the case constrain me to avail myself of
every opportunity to communicate with Paymaster Myers and must
plead my excuse for troubling yon.
I have the honor to be, with munch respect, your obedient servant,
S.	It. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Hon. JAMES M. MASON,
Commissioner of the Confederate States to Great Britain, London
See l?P~ 671, 672

Page 671

	OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	671

Letter from Commander Semme5, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to the Secretaryof the
Navy of the Confederate States, giving additional facts in the case of the arrest of Paymaster
Myers, C. S. Navy.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, March 3, 1862.
	SIR:	Since I had the honor of addressing you on the 24th ultimo
(disp~tch No. 4), other letters (copies annexed, marked A and B) have
passed between Mr. Hay, the British charg6 at Tangier, Morocco, and
myself on the subject of the imprisonment of Paymaster Myers by the
Moorish authorities at that place. These letters, together with those
already sent, will put you in possession of all the facts connected with
that great outrage. I have farther to report that on the 26th ultimo
Paymaster Myers and Mr. Tunstall were delivered by the U. S. consul,
aided by the Moorish authorities, to the commander of the U. S. sloop
of war mo, and that they are now prisoners oti board that ship. There
was considerable indignation expressed by the European residents in
Tangier at this high-handed proceeding. They gathered in crowds in
the streets, and it is said would have made an etlbrt to rescue the pris-
oners had not their agitation been calmed by the advice of their respec-
tive consuls and by an address of Mr. Hay, who advised them that the
affair was one exclusively between the parties concerned in it.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, ctc.,
[R. SEMMES,
Commander C
	Hon. S. H. MALLORY,	, . ~. Navy.]
AS~ecretary of the Navy, Richmond, Va.

	P.	5.The letter annexed, marked C,* [is] from Paymaster Myers,
giving an account of his imprisonment. I have up to this date received
no reply from the Moorish Government, and presume from the long
delay that they do not intend to send any.
	It. SEMMES.
[Enclosure A.]

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, February 23, 1862.
	SIR:	May I ask of you the favor to act unofficially for me in a matter
of humanity by handing to the proper officer the enclosed communica-
tion, demanding the release from imprisonment in Tangier of the pay-
master of this ship and of Mr. T. T. Tanstall, a citizen of the Confeder-
ate States. The Moorish authorities have evidently been imposed
upon by false representations as to the character and status of these
gentlemen. I hear that the U. S. consul demanded their imprisonment
under some extradition treaty. The absurdity of such a claim will, of
course, be apparent to you. We are recognized belligerents. Our acts
of war are legal therefore,so far as all neutrals are concerned, and it
can not be pretended that any officer of this ship can have committed
any offense in any act of war in which he may have participated against
the United States which Morocco can take cognizance of or bring
under the terms of any extradition treaty.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, etc.,
[It. SEMMES,
	JNO. llA~ DRUMMOND-HAY, C. B.,	Commander, C. 8~. Navy.]
11. M. Charg6 dAffaires, Tangier, Morocco.

found

Page 672

672 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEL~ERATE.

[Enclosure B.]

	C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, February 25, 1862.
SIR:	I have had the honor to receive your letter of yesterdays date,
in reply to mine of the 23d, informing n~e that
You (I) must be aware that her Britannic Majestys Government have decided on
observing a strict neutrality in the present conflict between the Northern and South-
ern States; it is therefore incumbent on her Majestys officers to avoid anything like
undue interference in any questions affecting the interests of either party which do
not concern the British Government; and though I do not refuse to accede to your
request to deliver the letter to the Moorish authorities, I think it my duty to signify
distinctly to the latter my intention to abstain from expressing an opinion regarding
the course to he pursued by Morocco on the subject-matter of your letter.

	Whilst I thank you for the courtesy of delivering my letter, as
requested, I must be permitted to express to you my disappointment
at the course which you have prescribed to yourself, of refraining from
expressing any opinion to the Moorish Government of the legality or
illegality of its act. The Confederate States, having ample ability to
maintain themselves in the war in which they are engaged with the
United States, do not request or expect neutral powers to interfere in
their behalf; nor can I conceive how your compliance with my request
would have compromised you or your Government. I had supposed
that the Trent affair, of so recent occnrrence, had settled not only the
right but the duty of the civilized nations of the earth to interfere ,in
a friendly manner, to prevent wars between nations. It can not escape
your observation that the course pursued by Europe in that affair is
precisely analogous to that which I have requested of you. In that
affair a quarrel arose between the United States, one of the belliger-
ents in the existing war, and Great Britain, a neutral in that war; and,
instead of refraining from offering advice, all Europe made haste to
volunteer it to both parties. The United States were told by France,
by Russia, by Spain that their act was illegal, and that they could,
without a sacrifice of honor, grant the reparation demanded by Great
Britain. Neither the nation giving the advice nor the nation advised
supposed for a moment that there was any breach of neutrality in this
proceeding; on the contrary, it was the general verdict of mankind
that the course was not only legal but eminently humane and proper
as tending to allay excitement and prevent the effusion of blood.
	If you will run a parallel between the Trent case and the case in
hand you will find it difficult, I think, to sustain the reasons you have
assigned for your forbearance. In that case the quarrel arose between
a neutral and a belligerent; so in this case. In that case citizens of a
belligerent State were unlawfully arrested on the high seas in a neutral
ship by the opposite belligerent and imprisoned. In this case citizens
of a belligerent State have been unlawfully arrested by a neutral in
neutral territory and imprisoned. Does the fact that the offense was
committed in the former case by a belligerent against a neutral, and in
the latter case by a neutral against a belligerent, make any difference
in the application of the principle we are considering? And, if so,in
what does the difference consist? If A strikes B is it lawful to inter-
fere to prevent a battle? And if B strikes A is it unlawful to interfere
for the same purpose? Can the circumstance that the prisoners seized
by one belligerent in the Trent affair were citizens of the other bellig-
erent alter the application of the principle? The difference, if any, is
in favor of the present case, for whilst the belligerent in the former case
was compelled to release its enemies, whom, under proper conditions, it
would have had the right to capture, in the latter case a neutral is t

Page 673

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	673

be advised to release prisoners who are not its enemies, and whom it
would have no right to capture nuder any circumstances.
	Upon further enquiry I learn that my first snpposition that the two
gentlemen in question had been arrested under some claim of extradi-
tion (unfortunately I have not a copy of the treaty between Morocco
and the United States) was not exactly correct. It seems that they were
arrested by Moorish soldiers upon the requisition of the U. S. con-
sul, who claimed to exercise jurisdiction over them as citizens of the
United States under a provision of a treaty common between what are
called the noncivilized and the civilized nations. This state of facts
does not alter in any degree the reasoning applicable to the case. If
Morocco adopts the status given the Confederate States by Europe
she must remain neutral between the two belligerents, not undertaking
to judge of the nationality of the citizens of either of the belligerents,
or to decide any other question growing out of the war which does not
concern her own interests. She has no right, therefore, to adjudge a
citizen of the Confederate States to be a citizen of the United States,
and not having this right herself she can not transfer it by treaty to
the U. S. consul.
	I trust you will not understand that I have written in a tone of
remonstrance or complaint. I have no ground on which to demand
anything of you. The friendly offices of nations, like those of individ-
uals, must be spontaneous; and if in the present instance you have not
deemed yourself at liberty to offer a word of friendly advice to a bar-
barian government, which has evidently erred through ignorance of its
rights and duties in favor of unfortunate cAtizens of a friendly govern-
ment, connected with the Government which you represent by many
ties of consanguinity and interest, I have no word of remonstrance to
offer. You are the best judge of your own actions.
I have the honor, etc.,
	J.	II. DRUMMOND-HAY, C. B.,	~ SEMMES.]
H.	111. ChargJ dAffaires, Tangier, Morocco.



Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Hon. 3. M.
Mason, C. S. commissioner at London, regarding the arrest and imprisonment of Paymaster
Myers, C~ S. Navy, and Mr. T. T. Tunstall.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, March 3, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you that on the 26th ultimo Pay-
master Myers and Mr. T. T. Tunstall, whose capture and imprisonment
at Tangier were reported to you in my last dispatch, were delivered by
the U. S. consul at that place to the commander of the U.. S. sloop of
war mo, on board of which vessel they are now prisoners. The consul
was assisted in this nefarious work by Moorish officials and soldiers.
It is reported that the European residents at Tangier were so outraged
by this proceeding that they assembled in the streets and would have
rescued the prisoners but for the interference of their consuls, headed
by Mr. Hay, the British charg6, who advised them to disperse, as the
arrest was no business of theirs. Do me the favor to forward the
enclosed dispatch to the Secretary of the Navy. The letter, C,* annexed
to this dispatch is from Mr. Myers, giving me an account of his arrest
123A43
Not found

Page 674

674 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.


and imprisonment. By a perusal of it you will perceive with what
indignity he was treated.
	Do me the favor also to forward the enclosed private letter for my
family, to the Hon. T. J. Semmes, New Orleans.
J have the honor, etc.,	IR. SEMMES,

Commander, C. S. Navy.]
	lion. J. M. MASON,
Commissioner Confederate States,
Fenton Hotel, St. James street, London, England.



Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Hon. John Slidell,
C.	S. commissioner at Paris, regarding the arrest and imprisonment of Paymaster Myers,
C.	S. Navy, and Mr. T. T. Tunstall.
C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, March 4, 1862.
	SIR: In my letter to you of the 25th ultimo I gave you an account of
the capture and imprisonment at Tangier, in the Empire of Morocco, of
Paymaster Henry Myers, of this ship, and of Mr. T. T. Tunstall, one
of our citizens. I enclosed you at the same time a copy of the corre-
spondence which had been passed between myself and the authorities
of Tangier ai~d Gibraltar on the subject. I now have the honor .to
inform you that on the 26th ultimo these two gentlemen were delivered
by the U. S. consul at Tangier, aided by Moorish soldiers, to the com-
mander of the U. S. sloop of war mo, and that they are now prisoners
on board that ship; There was a good deal of excitement on the occa-
sion among the European residents of Tangier, who manifested an imiten-
tion to rescue the prisoners, but the several consuls, headed by Mr.
Hay, British charg6, having interfered, the disturbance was quelled
and the people were induced to retire and permit the Moorish Govern-
ment to consummate the outrage. The name of the French steamer on
board which Messrs. Myers and Tunstall embarked at this place for
Cadiz is Villa de ]Jilialaga.
I have the honor to be, etc.,	[H. SEMMES

Commander, C. S. Navy.~
	Hon. JNo. SLIDELL,
Commissioner Confederate States, Paris, France.




Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Hon. 3. K.
Mason, C. S. commissioner at London, regarding the disposition of his vessel, officers, and
crew.
C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Gibraltar, March 6, 1862.
	SIR: I have had the honor to receive your letter of the 22d instant
[ultimo] informing me of the steps you had taken to remove my diffi-
culty with reference to a supply of coal. Before this reaches you you
will have received my letters of the 24th and 25th instant [ultimo],
enclosing a copy of the second survey of my ship, from which it will
appear that a supply of coal is no longer necessary to her for the
present

Page 675

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	675

	I hope you will find no difficulty in authorizing me to make the
arrarigemeiits suggested in those letters as to the dispositiou of my
ship, officers, and crew.
	It would be a useless expense to the Government, without corre-
sponding advantage, to keep the ship iu commission wheu she can no
longer be useful.
	I learn from Lieutenant North that the ship constructed for our Gov-
crument in Liverpool has been sent empty to Havana, to evade the
vigilance of the British Government. Indeed, it is quite manifest that
there is a combinatiou of all the neutral nations against us in this war
and that in consequence we shall be able to accomplish little or nothing
outside of our own waters. They pretend to be neutral, it is true, but
it is only a pretense. The rule adopted in the beginning of the war
excluding our prizes from their ports was meant to deprive us of the
right of maritime capture, and it has had that effect. It is absurd to
contend that because the rule was applied in terms to both parties
alike it was a just or equal rule. The powers of Europe knew when
they penned it that its effect upon the United States would be null,
whilst it would drive us from the ocean, or rather prevent us from
taking it. They knew that all the ports of the United States being
open it would not inconvenience the enemy, whilst ours being all shut,
if we could not send prizes into Europeau ports we could not send
theni anywhere. They had determined at the congress of Paris that
privateering should be suppressed, and although they could not sup-
press it in terms as regarded ourselves, they have equally accomplished
their object by means of this unjust and unneutral rule. They knew
that privateers would not take the ocean unless in pursuit of booty;
that private capitalists would not risk their money without an equiv-
alent; and that if they prohibited the privateers from taking their
prizes into their ports, the ports of the privateers being blockaded,
the stimulus of booty would be withdrawn arid privateering would be
knocked in the head. And such we see to be the fact. If a just rule
of neutrality had been adopted, one which would have enabled us
equally with the enemy to semi in our prizes for adjudication, the seas
would be swarming to-day with our privateers. With regard to our
men-of war, they know that we can not have access to-our own dock-
yards for repairs and supplies whilst these resources are open to the
enemy, and yet they put stringent rules shutting us out from their
ports, hypercritically pretending that the rules are neutral because
they apply in terms to both parties. The fact is, we have got to fight
this war out by ourselves, unaided, and that, too, in our own terms.
We can beat the enemy and maintain our independence and I trust
we shall recollect the attitude of Europe when we come to arrange
treaties of commerce with them; that we shall regard them as they
have regarded us, as strangers, and that all our dealings with them
will be predicated upon our iuterests and not upon our friendships.
	Excuse me from wandering a little from the record, as you lawyers
term it, but I have been led into this train of remark by the consider-
ation of the condition to which my ship has been reduced by the
unfriendliness of the European powers. Under the merest shadow of
justice I should have been permitted to repair in Cadiz.
I am, very respectfully and truly, your obedient servant,
	If. SEMMES,
	lion. J. M. MASoN,	Commander, C. S. Navy.
Commissioner Confederate States, London

Page 676

676 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.


Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Hon. 3. lYI. Meson,
C. S. commissioner at London, acknowledging letter of advice.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, March 14, 1862.
	Sin:	I have had the honor to receive your letter of the 6th instant, advis-
ing me to remain in statu quo, with my ship, preserving my sectes [sici
of her disability, and occupying the attention of the enemys cruisers.
I will do this, though the prospect of inactivity for some months is by~
no means a pleasant one. There are at the present moment three of
the enemy~s ships in these waters, viz, the steamers Kearsarge and
Tuscarora, and the sailing sloop of war mo. Two other steamers are
reported to be cruising between this and Cadiz. We are thus occupy-
ing the attention of the enemy to the extent of many times our own
force. May I ask of you the favor, in the meantinme, to send me an
occasional newspaper from home and to drop me a line should any
thing of importance occur ~ As, possibly, my absence from my ship
might occasion criticism and conjecture, I think it best not to visit
London for the present.
With many thanks for your kind invitation,
	[R. SEMMES,
	Hon. J. M. MASON	Commander, C. S. Navy.I
Commissioner Confederate States.

Letter from Hon. 3. M. Mason, C. S. commissioner at London, to the Secretary of State of the
Confederate States, regarding the arrest and imprisonment of Messrs. Myers and Tunstall
at Tangier. ~. ~. ~ London, March 18, 1862.


	Sin:	Delay in the departure of the steamer Pacific enables me to
send a further dispatch. I transmit with this reports from Captain
Semmes of the Sumter at Gibraltar, to the Secretary of the Navy.
They were sent to me open for perusal and contaiu (inter alia) details
of the late arrest and imprisonment of Paymaster Myers of that shmp,
and. of Mr. Tunstall. a citizen of the Confederate States, who was with
him, by the U. S. consul at Tangier, with the aid of the Moorish
authorities, and of the final delivery of these gentlemen as prisoners
on board of the U. S. sloop of war mo. I had all the papers relating to
this arrest copied and sent them to Earl Russell, with a note stating
that I did so after observing that this transaction had been made a
subject of enquiry in the House of Comninons. In my note to Earl
Russell I did not ask for any aThon of or intervention by this Govern-
ment.
	I enclose also with this a slip from the London Herald of this morn-
ing, containing a like enquiry, by a question put last night in the
House of Commons to Mr. Layard, one of the under secretaries, with
his answer. The subject was dropped after the answer of Mr. Layard,
who, as will be observed, did not respond to the query in the closing
paragraph of the question.
	lii a late note to Me. Shidell I suggested that these gentlemen, being
passengers on board a French packet steamer and having landed only
for a walk on shore (animo revertendi), whilst the ship remained at
Tangier, might be considered as remaining under the protection of the
French flag, and thus the Emperor be disposed to take up the quarrel.
A letter from him which crossed mine en route showed that he had
anticipated the view I suggested, but did not say whether he would
present it to Mr. Thouvenel. It is certainly a gross outrage on th

Page 677

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	677

feebleness of the Moorish Government, and although neither England
nor France may interfere, yet it brings the Government of the United
States under the grave condemnation of all Europe.
	I should have stated above that soon after the occurrence was known
here a question was put by a member of the House of Commons to
the under secretary of state, enquiring whether the Government had
any information concerning it, when the reply briefly was that the
Government had been informed by telegraph, but accompanied by a
statement that the prisoners had been subsequently release(l.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
J.	M. MASON.
Hon. SECRETARY OF STATE
OF THE CONFEDERATE STATES OF AMERICA.



Letter from Commander Senimes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Hon. John Slidell,
C.	S. commissioner at Paris, relative to the case of the arrest of Paymaster Myers, C. S.
Navy, and Mr. Tunstall.
C.	S. S. SUMTER.
Bay of Gibraltar,March19,18G~.
	SIR: I have had the honor to receive your note of the 8th instant inform-
ing me that you had referred the subject of the capture of Paymaster
Myers and Mr. Tunstall to Mr. Thouvenel, the French minister for for-
eign affairs, but that the impression prevailed in Paris that those gen-
tlemen had been liberated. With regard to the latter fact you have, of
course, been mm deceived before this.
	The enemys sloop of war mo came into the Spanish portion of this
bay (Algeciras) with the prisoners on board on the 28th of February
and sailed again on the next day. On the 6th of March she appeared
oft Cadiz, and after having communicated with the U. S. consul at that
port, transferred the prisoners (6 miles outside of the Cadiz light) to
the U. S. merchant ship Harve8t Home, bound for Boston, so that prob-
ably by the time this reaches you the gentlemen will be in Fort War.
ren. The French consul-general at Tangier must have kept his Gov-
ernment badly informed on the subject, since the latter supposed as
late as the 8th instant that the prisoners had beeii liberated. I trust
that you will be able to make something out of the case. It is one
in which all time Christian powers, it seems to me, are interested. If
this precedent is to stand, a French or an English sul~ject may be seized
to-morrow upon the simple requisition of a consul amid handed over to
his enemy. And then, as I remarked to you in mny first letter, is not
the honor of the French flag involved ~ It is admitted that as between
civilized States this question of the flag would not arisethe parties
having disembarked, though only for a timebut a different set of
rules has been applied in the dealings of Christian powers with the non-
Christian or noncivilized powers, as is shown by this very arrest under
a claim of jurisdiction by a consul.
	A Frenchman in Morocco is, by treaty, under the protectiomi of the
French consular flag. If he commits ait offense he is tried and pun.
ished by his consul, regardless of the fact that he is literally withimi the
jurisdiction of Morocco. And these concessions have been demanded
by the Christian nations for the security of their subjects. Should a
French citizen, visiting Morocco, having landed only in itinere, be the
less entitled to the protection of his flag because his flag flies from the
masthead of his ship instead ef frommi the consular residence, supposimig
the consul to be temporarily absent l And if a Frenchman would b

Page 678

678 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

protected under these circumstances, our citizens embarked under the
French flag are entitled to similar protection.
	But what appears to me most extraordinary in this case is the apathy,
or rather the fear of their own governments, manifested by the repre-
sentatives of the Christian powers present. A friend of mine, th ecap-
tam of an English frigate here, visited Tangier soon after the occur-
rence, and he informs me that the Moorish authorities were sorely
perplexed during the penden~y of the affair, and that they implored
advice from the Christians present, but that no one diplomatic or consu-
lar officer would volunteer a word. As you have already been informed,
Mr. Drummond-Hay, the British eharg6, to whom I made a special
appeal, not only preserve(l a dignified reticence, but took pains to inform
the Government that he did not mean to give them any advice. To add
to the embarrassment of the ignorant Moors, the truculent Yankee consul
threatened to haul down his flag and leave the country if his demand
was not complied with. And to give force to this threat, the mo, which
had come to receive the prisoners, landed forty of her crew, well armed.
My informant further states that the Moors are in great trouble at what
they have done, and would give anything to undo it, if it were possible.
	1 have read the accounts of our recent defeats in the West with much
anxiety, not of course as to the ultimate results, but I fear the successes
of the enemy will encourage him to prolong the war, notwithstanding
the Sumter has carried the war into Africa.
	Do you see no gleam of daylight in Paris ~ for I am convinced the
light must come from that quarter. The English people, notwithstand-
ing the Trent affair, have been so thoroughly bullied by the Yankees
that it is not to be hoped they will regain their courage during the war.
Lord Russells conduct reminds me of that of a cowardly fellow, who,
nuder pressure, has sent a challenge which he secretly hopes will not
be accepted, and having gotten well out of the scrape is profuse of affec-
tion for his late adversary. I think England, however, will timidly fol-
low the lead of Louis Napoleon if he will take the initiative. And if
England and France will act in concert,they need not either of them
fear a war with the Yankees. They will come down as tamely as they
did in the Trent affair.
	Do me the honor to present me kindly to Mrs. Slidell and the young
ladies.
I am, very respectfully, etc.,
[H. SEMMES.1
Hon. JOHN SLIDELL,
Commissioner, etc., Paris.


Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Hon. 3. N.
Mason, C. S. commissioner at London, relative to the arrest and imprisonment of Fayma9ter
Myers, C. S. Navy, and Mr. Tunstall.
C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, March 19, 1862.
	Sin: I have had the honor to receive your letter of the 8th instant
informing me that as late as the 7th of March the English Government
was under the impression that Paymaster Myers and Mr. Tunstall had
been released from imprisonment and requesting me to telegraph you
if the contrary should be the fact.
	The lack of information of the under secretary of state is somewhat
remarkable, as no one has supposed here from the beginning that
these gentlemen had been liberated. On the contrary, the sloop of wa

Page 679

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	679

mo, of the enemy, came into this bay (Spanish side) on the 28th of Feb
mary with the prisoners on board and sailed with them on board the
next day. On the 6th instant, having communicated with the U. S.
consul at Cadiz, the mo (lying 6 miles outside of Cadiz light) trans-
ferred the prisoners to an U. S. merchant ship called the Harrest ilome,
bound for Boston. As you will perceive from the narration of these
facts, it was unnecessary for me to telegraph you, as the prisoners,
thongh they had not been released, had been placed beyond the reach of
the British Government, even if you could have induced that Govern-
ment to interfere, which I very much doubt. You have of course
been informed through the press that the Moorish Government was
anxious to liberate the prisoners, but that they were bullied into acqui-
escence by the truculent consul (backed by the presence of a war ship,
which landed forty armed meu on the occasion), who declared that he
would haul down his flag and quit the country if his demand was not
complied with. A friend of mine, in command of an English frigate
here, visited Tangier in his ship soon after the occurrence, and he
informs me that the Moorish Government was sorely perplexed during
the pendency of the affair and appealed in vain for advice to the repre-
sentatives of the Christian powers present, and that it now regrets
beyond measure the course it was induced to pursue and would give
anything to be able to remedy the evil. The more 1 reflect upon this
matter the more extraordinary the conduct of the gentlemen appealed
to by the Moorish Government appears to me. They seem to have
been paralyzed by the fear of offending their respective governments,
instead of acting like men of sense and interposing to prevent so gross
an outrage against the laws of nations and a Christian State. This
may all be very good diplomacy, but it strikes me as a great want of
common sense. A word of advice, given unofficially even, would have
been an act of kindness to the ignorant Moors in keeping them out of
a scrape, as well as to ourselves. As the case now stands, we shall be
obliged, as soon as we have gotten rid of the Yankee war, to settle
accounts with his Majesty of Morocco.
	Besides the three ships of the enemy reported to you in my last let-
ter, the sloop of war St. Louis, of twenty guns, has arrived at Cadiz,
some twelve hours distant from this place.
	I have read the accounts of our recent defeats in the West with much
anxiety, not of course as to final results, but as to the effect which
they will probably have in prolonging the war. I trust you will facili-
tate the transmission of my dispatches (both original and duplicate and
by different conveyances) to the Secretary of the Navy and communi-
cate to me the earliest intelligence from him, as both my officers and
myself feel that we could probably be more usefully employed at home.
Still I can not move without orders.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully and truly, yours, etc.,
R.	SEMMES.
Hon. JAS. M. MASON,
Commissioner Confederate States, London.

Letter from Hon. 3. M. Mason, C. S. commissioner at London, to the Secretary of State of the
Confederate States, regarding suggestions given to Captain Semmes, C. S. Navy, as to the
disposition of the C. S. S. Sumter.
LONDON, March 20, 1862.
	Sin:	Since closing my dispatch of the 11th instant, I have received
a letter from Captain Semmes, of the Sumter, dated at Gibraltar on the
14th instant, in reply to one from me ou the 6th

Page 680

680 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Captain Semmes, in his report to the Secretary of the Navy, which
goes with this dispatch, states that on a further survey of his ship,
after getting up steam for the purpose only of changing his bertli,he
found the boilers so worn or burned out as to render them unfit for
further use, and rendering it unsafe to rely on them even for the short
voyage contemplated to a near European port for repairs which he
could not make at Gibraltar.
	In this state of things he reported to the Secretary of the Navy,
and by letter to me, that there was no alternative but either to sell
the ship for what she would bring or to lay her up where she was in
charge of a midshipman and boats crew, to the end of the war. And
in the uncertainty of being able to hear from the Secretary he asked
my advice in the dilemma. At that time he was watched only by the
enemys steamer Tuscarora, which was lying at Algeciras, on the oppo-
site side of the bay. In view of the fact that his ship was disabled for
further service afloat, and that as long as she remaiiied in port one or
more of the enemys ships would be engaged in looking after her, I
considered that the most useful service he could render, under the
circumstances, was to keep his own counsel and lie where he was as
though the presence of the enemy alone prevented his getting to sea,
thus depriving the enemy for the time of the services of the ships on
watch. The letter of Captain Semmes above referred to, of the 14th,
tells me that he has determined to follo&#38; my suggestion, and also that
three vessels of the eneuiy were then in the bay watching his move-
ments, to wit, the steamers Tuscarora and Kearsarge and the Lw,
sloop of war; and that two other steamers were reported cruising for
him between Cadiz and Gibraltar. I think, therefore, that with a dis-
abled ship he is doing good service.
I have, etc.,
J.	M. MASON.
The SECRETARY OF STATE.



Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Hon. P. A. Rost,
C. S. commissioner at Madrid, regarding a breach of neutrality on the part of the Spanish
Government.
C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, ]Ilarch 27, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to state for your information that the Gov-
ernment of Spain has been guilty of a palpable violation of neutrality
in the course it has thought proper to pursue in relation to this ship
under my command, and several ships of the enemy; for whilst this
ship was expelled from the port of Cadiz in January last under a pre-
tended enforcement of the Spanish proclamation of neutrality, the ships
of war, the Tuscarora and Kearsarge, of the enemy have been permitted
to remain in the port of Algeciras for the last six weeks without moles-
tation.
	The enclosed copies of letters, marked A* and B*, the originals of
which were received by me from the civil governor of Cadiz when I was
in that port, will verify the fact that my expulsion, and the shelter given
in Algeciras to the ships of the enemy, is so patent that it will not be
denied. The first of these letters, marked A, informed me that accord-
ing to the Spanish rule of neutrality I could not remain in the waters of
Cadiz longer than twenty-four hours except for necessary repairs; and
KNot found

Page 681

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	681

the second, marked B, informed me that my ship having been repaired
I must depart immediately. I subsequently received a verbal message
from the commandant of the plaza commanding me to depart within
six hours. As I had not then received funds for which I was waiting
with which to purchase coal and provisions, and snpposing that the
local authorities might be acting without the authority of the central
government, I desired that this qnestion of my departure might be
referred to the government of Madrid. This was done by telegraph
and the commandant of the plaza sent an officer to inform inc a few
hours afterwards that the Madrid government had graciously decided
to permit me to remain forty-eight hours longer, but that I mnst posi-
tively depart at the end of that time. As so short a respite could be
of no use to me I got underway immediately with the few tons of coal
that still remained on board and steamed round to this place. I sub-
mit these facts to you that you may demand an explanation of them of
the Spanish Government should you deem it necessary. The question
to be asked of the Spanish Government is plainly this: On what prin-
ciple of neutrality is it that the C. S. S. Sumter was expelled from Cadiz
in January last without being permitted even to await the arrival of
funds which she was daily expecting, whilst the U. S. steamers Tusca-
rora and Kearsarge have been permitted to remain in Algeciras for six
weeks in observation of the Sumter, and are still permitted to remaiu
there0?
I have the honor to be, etc.,
	[R. SEMME5,
	lion. P. A. RosT,	Commander, C. S. Navy.]
Commissioner, etc., ]Iiliadrid.


Letter from Commander Semme~, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Hon. 3. K. Mason,
C. S. commissioner at London, requesting authority to lay up that vessel and proceed to the
Confederate States.
C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, March 30, 18G2.
SIR:	I had the honor to address you a note a day or two ago request-
ing you to assume the responsibility of giving me an order to lay the
Sumter up, that my officers and myself may return to the Confederate
States to take a more active part in the war. I now enclose you a copy
of a letter~ addressed to me by the wardroom officers of this ship on the
same subject, from which you will perceive that there is no difference of
opinion between us as to the policy and propriety of the step indicated.
Each succeeding mail is bringing us intelligence that the enemy is
pressing us on all sides, and it would seem that we shall have occasion
for every arm and all our energies and resources to defend ourselves.
The most that we could hope to accomplish by remaining where we are
would be, perhaps, to occupy the attention of an additional steamer of
the enemy. One steamer will always remain to watch the ship, in what-
ever condition she may be, and probably no more than two would con-
tinue the blockade if the officers remained by her. The enemy having
some three hundred armed ships afloat, one ship would seem to make
no appreciable difference in his offensive force. I would not press this
matter upon you so earnestly if there was any certainty of my hearing
from the Secretary of the Navy in any reasonable time, but my dis-
Not found

Page 682

682 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

patches are liable to capture, as are his dispatches to me, and many
months may therefore elapse before I can receive his orders. I can
readily nnderstand how, nnder ordinary circumstances, you might hes-
itate abont giving me this order, but there are freqneiit occasions in
which responsibility mnst be assumed, and I respectfully suggest that
this is one of them.
	To lay the Sumter up withont an order from the Navy Department
involves responsibility, either in you or in me; and, as I stated to you
in my last note, it appears to me that this responsibility may be assumed
by you with more propriety than by myself~ as you are a high function-
ary of the Government, while I am a mere subordinate of a department.
The question of expense, too, is to be considered; the expenses of the
ship, with the utmost economy, being, in round numbers, $1,000 per
month. Should you decide upon giving me the order, do me the favor to
telegraph meas follows, viz: Your request is granted; act accordingly.
Address me also by mail, as it will take some days to wind up affairs,
and I shall have ample time to receive your letter before leaving for
London.
	Respectfully, etc.,	B. SEMMES.

	Hon. JAs. [M.] MASON,
Commissioner, etc., London.


Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Her Britannic
Majestys colonial secretary at Gibraltar, denying statement regarding coal.


C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, March 31, 18G2.
	SiR: I have had the honor to receive your note of this days date
stating that the governor had been officially informed that coal had
been supplied to the Sumter at nighttime, and especially from 10 to 3
oclock on the night of the 19th instant. In reply to this I have to state
that some one has imposed upon the credulity of his Excellency, there
not being a word of truth in the whole statement.
I have the honor to be, etc.,
[B. SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.j
	Captain S. FREELING,
Colonial Secretary.


Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Her Britannic
Majestys colonial secretary at Gibraltar, denying the statement regarding the reception of
coal by that vessel.
C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, April 11, 18G2.
	Sin: I have had the honor to receive yoar letter of this date, trans-
mitting to me on behalf of his Excellency the governor a copy of the
deposition made by George A. Whipple, a deserter from this ship, cor-
roborating the statement heretofore made to his Excellency of the
Sumters having received coal on board in this port.
	I pray you to present my thanks to his Excellency for the trouble he
has taken in this matter, and for his l)olite attention in transmitting
me a copy of the deposition aforesaid. In relation to said depositio

Page 683

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	683

I have to remark that it is a sheer fabrication from beginning to end,
and I am moitified to find that a citizen of one of the Northern States
of the late United States has been capable of perjuring himself so sob
emnly on the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God.
I have the honor, etc.,
[R. SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
	Captain S. FREELING,
Colonial Secretary at Gibraltar.


Report of Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter, of his intention to~
leave that vessel at Gibraltar and proceed to London.

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, April 13, 1862.
	SIR: In my dispatch of the date of 24th February last (No. 4), I hadi
the honor to report to you the disabled condition of this ship, and to
recommend that she be laid up in this port in charge of a midshipman
and boats crew until the end of the war. Subsequently to the date
of that dispatch I addressed a note to the Hon. J. M. Mason, our com-
missioner in London, requesting him to anticipate the action of the
Department and assume the responsibility of giving me an order to
lay the ship up. Mr. Mason did this by telegram to me of the 7th
instant. My reasons for making this request of Mr. Mason were as fol-
lows, to wit:
	First. The boilers of the ship had been condemned by a survey, and
the hull of the ship reported unseaworthy without extensive repairs;
	Second. The impossibility of renewing the boilers or repairing the
ship in this port;
	Third. The great uncertainty, not to say impossibility, of taking the
ship to any other port where the requisite repairs could be made, she
being blockaded by two of the enemys steamers, each of superior force;
	Fourth. The great length of time which must necessarily elapse
before the Department could be heard from in consequence of the
blockade of our coast
	Fifth. The expense of keeping a disabled ship in commission; and,
Sixth. A desire to release my officers from a useless inactivity in
order that they might return home and take a more active part in the
war.
	In opposition to these reasons there was but one point which pre-
sented itself. I was now occupying the attention of two of the enemys
steamers, and one of these might be withdrawn if I laid the ship up..
I deemed this of small moment, however, and imme4iately upon the.
receipt of Mr. Masons order I set about making the necessary disposi-
tions to carry it in to effect.
	[now have the honor to report to you that I have discharged and
paid off in full all the crew (numbering 50), except 10; that I have
placed Midshipman II. F. Armstrong, assisted by Acting Masters
Mate J. T. Hester, in charge of the ship, with provisions and funds for
ten or twelve months, and that I have directed all the other officers to
return to the Confederate States and report themselves to the Depart-
ment. I will myself proceed to London, and after conferring with Mr.
Mason make the best of my way home. I trust the Department will
see in what 1 have done an anxious desire to advance the best interest

Page 684

084 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

of our country, and that it will justify the responsibility which; in the
best exercise of my judgment, I felt it my duty to assume iu the difli-
cult circumstances by which I was surrounded and embarrassed.
	Enclosed is a copy of my order to Midshipman II. F. Armstrong and
a list of the officers and men left on board ship.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[R. SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
	Hon. S. R. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy
[Enclosure.]

C.	S. S. SUMTER,
Bay of Gibraltar, April 13, 1862.
Sin:	Having received an order from the Hon. J. M. Mason, commis
~ioner of the Confederate States in London, to lay the Sumter up in
43ibraltar in consequence of her disabled condition, I hereby place you
in charge of said ship, with Masters Mate J. T. Hester and nine sea-
men under your command. The paymaster will turn over to you the
clothing and provisions of the ship and will also deliver you a sum of
money to defray your current necessary expenses. You will be charged
with all these articles at the Navy Department, and you must keep a
regular set of accounts to show how you shall have expended the same
or any part tbereof. You will remain by the ship, taking good care of
liter and of the property on board until you shall receive further orders
from the Government, and you will be careful to do no act to infringe
the neutrality of the port.
I have the honor to be, very respeitfully, etc.,
[R. SEMMES,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
	Midshipman R. F. ARMSTRONc[, C. S. Navy.



letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, late commanding C. S. S. Sumter, to Hon. 3. K.
Mason, C. S. commissioner at London, recommending certain officers of the C. S. S. Sumter
for duty under Captain Bulloch, C. S. Navy.

LoNDoN, April 28, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you that the following persons, late
of the C. S. S. Sumter, are in this city and in Liverpool, and as I under-
stand that Commander Bulloch is fitting out a ship at the latter place,
I would recommend that some of these officers be ordered to report to
him, say as follows:
	First Assistant Engineer Freeman, Third Assistant Engineer OBrien,
Third Assistant Engineer Cummings, Boatswain McCaskey, Sailmaker
Beaufort, Gunner Cuddy, Midshipman Wilson.
	The marine, Thompson, I would recommend to be sent to the Con-
federate States.
1 have the honor to be, etc.,	R. SEMMES.

	lion. J. M. MASON,
Commissioner Confederate States.

	P. S.Carpenter Robinson might also be ordered to report to Cap-
tam B

Page 685

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.
t38~

Report of Commander Semmes, late commanding C. S. S. Sumter, of the abandonment of that

vessel at Gibraltar and his arrival at Nassau, New Providence.

NASSAU, ~EW PROVIDENCE, June 15 to 20, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you of my arrival at this place on
the 8th instant, in twenty days, from London. I found here Lieuten-
ants Maffitt and Sinclair and received from the former your letter of
May 29, enclosing a copy of your dispatch to me of May 2. As you
might conclude from the fact of my being here, the original of the
latter communication had not reached me, nor, indeed, had any com-
munication whatever from the Department. As you anticipated, it
became necessary for me to abandon the Sumter, in consequence of my
being hemmed in by the enemy in a place where it was impossible te
put the necessary repairs upon her to enable her to take the sea.
	For some days after my arrival at Gibraltar I had hopes of being
able to reach another English or a French port, where I might find the
requisite facilities for repair, and I patched my boilers and otherwise
prepared my ship for departure. In consequence of a combination of
the coal merchants against me, however, I was prevented from coaling;
and, in the meantime, the enerny~s steamers Tusearora and Kearsarge
and the sailing sloop mo arrived and blockaded me. Notwithstand-
ing the arrival of these vessels, I should have made an effort to get to sea
but for the timely discovery of further defects in my boilers, which
took place under the following circumstances: An English steamer
having arrived from Liverpool with an extra quantity of coal on board
offered to supply me. 1 got steam up to go alongside of her for
the purpose, when, with a very low pressure, my boilers gave way in
so serious a manner as to extinguish the fires in one of the furnaces.
I was obliged of course to blow off and upon a reexamination of the
boilers by a board of survey it was ascertained that they had been
destroyed to such an extent as to render them entirely untrustWorthy..
It was found, indeed, to be necessary either to supply the ship with
new boilers or to lift the old ones out of her and renew entirely the
arches and other important parts of them, which could only be done in
a maghine shop and with facilities not to be found at Gibraltar.
	In this state of things it became necessary, in my judgment, either
to lay the ship up or to sell her. Of course, the remaining by her of
myself, my officers, and crew, in her disabled and useless condition,
was not to be thought of Still, I felt that the responsibility was a
grave one, and deeming it more respectful to the Department that it
should be assumed by some one higher in authority than myself I
reported the facts to the Hon. James M. Mason, our commissioner in
London, and requested him to assume the power. This he did very
promptly, and iii a few days afterwards I discharged and paid off in
full all the crew except ten men, and detached all the officers except
Midshipman Armstrong and a masters mate. J placed Mr. Armstrong
in charge of the ship, supplied him with money .and provisions suffi-
cient for himself and his diminished crew for ten months, and departed
myself for London, whither most of the officers also repaired on their
way to the Confederate States. Upon my arrival in London I found
that the Oreto (Florida) had been dispatched some weeks before to this.
place; and Commander Bulloch having informed inc that he had your
orders to command the second ship he was building himself I had na
alternative but to return to the Confederate States for orders. It is
due to Commander Bulloch to say, however, that he offered to place
himself entirely nuder my orders, and even to relinquish to me th

Page 686

686 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

command of the ship he was building; but I did not feel at liberty to
interfere with your orders.
	Whilst in London I ascertained that a number of steamers were being
prepared to run the blockade with arms, etc., and instead of dispatch-
ing my officers at once for the Confederate States, I left them to take
charge of these ships, as they should be gotten ready, and ruu them
in, deeming this the best service they could render the Government
nnder the circumsta~ices. 1 came hither myself (accompanied by my
first lieutenant and surgeon), a passenger iu the British steamer Melita,
laden with arms, etc., with the same intention. It is fortunate that I
made this arrangement, as many of my officers still remain in London,
and I shall be able to detain them there, to take them with me in the
execution of your order of the 2d of May, assigning me to the command
of the Alabama. In obedience to this order I shall return by the first
conveyance to England, when the joint energies of Commander Bulloch
and myself will be directed to the preparation of this ship for sea. I
will take with me Lieutenant Kell, Surgeon Galt, and Lientenant of
Marines Howell, Mr. Howell and Lieutenant Stribling having reached
this port a few days before me, in the British steamer Bahama, from
Hamburg, laden with arms, etc., for the Confederacy. At the earnest
entreaty of Lieutenant Commanding Maffitt, I have consented to per-
mit Lieutenant Stribling to remain with him as his first lieutenant, ~n
board the Florida. The Floridas officers not yet haviiig arrived, Mr.
Striblings place on board the Alabama will be filled by Midshipman
Armstrong, promoted.
	It will doubtless be a matter of delicacy and management to get the
Alabama safely out of British waters without suspicion, as Mr. Adams,
the Northern envoy, and his nnmerons satellites are exceedingly vigi-
lant in their espionage. We can not, of course, think of arming her in
a British port. This must be done at some concerted rendezvous, to
which her battery and the most of her crew must be sent in a mer-
chant vessel.
	The Alabama will be a fine ship, quite equal to encounter any of the
enemys sloops of the class of the Dacotah, Iroquois, Tuscarora,etc.; and I
shall -feel much more independent in her upou the high seas than I did
in the little iS~umter. I think well of yonr suggestion of the East Indies
as a cruising ground, and hope to be in the track of the enemys com-
merce in those seas as early as October or November next, when I shall
doubtless be able to make other rich burnt offerings~~ upon the altar
-of our countrys liberties. Lieutenant Sinclair having informed me
that you said, in a conversation with him, that I might dispose of the
AS~umter either by laying her up or selling her, as my judgment might
approve, I will, unless I receive contrary orders from you, dispose of
her by sale upon my arrival in Europe. As the war is likely to con-
tinue for two or three years yet it would be a useless expense to keep a
vessel so compam.ativly worthless so long at her anchors. I will canse
to be sent to the Alabama her chronometers, charts, etc., and I will
transfer to that vessel her remaining officers and crew.
	In conclusion, permit me to thank you very sincerely for this new
proof of your confidence, and for your kind intention to nominate me
as one of the captains under the new Navy bill. I trust I shall prove
inyselt worthy of these marks of your approbation.
R.	SEMiVIES.

	Hon. S. [B.] MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy

Page 687

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	687

Letter from K. Myers, esq., to the Secretary of State of the Confederate States, requesting his
intervention in the case of Paymaster Myers, C. S. Navy, a prisoner at Fort Warren.


MARIETTA, [GA.], July 2, 1862.
	I take the liberty of calling your attention to the case of my son,
Major Henry Myers, late purser of the Confederate war steamer Sum-
ter. He was one of the first officers who resigned from the Navy of the
United States and tendered his services to his native State, Georgia,
even before she had seceded.
	At the organization of the Confederate Government he was appointed
to the same office he had before held under the United States. Some
short time after this he was ordered to join the Sumter, and contiiiued
with her during her entire cruise. While at Cadiz he heard of the
illness of a friend at Tangier, and passed over to see him. He had
landed but a very short time when lie was taken with an armed force
by order of the U. S. consul, who had him put in irons and placed on
board the U. S. ship mo, and in that condition sent across the ocean
to Fort Warren, where he remains. A memorial was sent by British
subjects at Tangier to their Government, representing the violation of
neutral territory under protection of the British Government. Mr.
Layard, under secretary of state, presented the memorial to Parliament,
observing that he had no doubt Mr. Lincolns sense of justice and
regard for the laws of nations would order Mr. Myers to be immediately
released. His remarks caused action on the memorial to be postponed.
The Lincoln Government have decided that my son is not a prisoner
of war, but a political prisoner. He was forcibly taken ou neutral ter-
ritory, contrary to the laws of nations. He was put in irons contrary to
the usage of civilized nations, and in that dishonoring and inhuman condi-
tion sent to the United States. The U. S. consul knew that the Gov-
ernment of Morocco was too weak a power to resent so cowardly a
violation of its territorial rights, and therefore committed this outrage,
of which but few like examples can be found in an enlightened and
civilized age.
	The Confederate Government can not bring the case of Mr. Myers
within the rule it has established for the exchange of prisoners, for
there is no prisoner confined under similar circumstances; his is an
isolated case. The Government of Morocco, if it demanded his release,
would have its demand disregarded, for it is impotent to enforce its
demand. I therefore trust that our own Government will take into
consideration the case of Mr. Myers and all the attendant circum.
stances and effect release as soon as practicable.
I am, sir, respectfully, your most obedient servant,
M.	MYERS.

Hon. J. P. BENJAMIN,
Secretary ~f State.

	SIR: I have reqnested permission of Colonel Myers to make this
addition to his letter, for the purpose of saying to you that he is a
gentleman of high character and influence in Georgia, and to express
my strong conviction that the case to which he invites the attention of
the Confederate Government is of such a character that it demands
the prompt, vigorous, and earnest attention of our Government, in
which opinion I am sure you will concur.
Respectfully,

M.	P. GENTRY

Page 688

688 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.


	I fully concur ill the statement of Hon. M. P. Gentry. I have been
long acquainted with Colonel Myers, and know him as a gentleman of
great purity and integrity of character and am able to bear testimony
to the prompt and energetic conduct of his son in making an early
tender of his services to his native State at the commencement of onr
present struggle.
I am, with great respect, your obedient servant,
JOSEPH F. BROWN.



Letter from Hon. 3. K. Mason, C. S. commissioner at London, to the Secretary of State of the
Confedorate States, reporting the murder of Acting Midshipman Andrews, C. S. Navy, on
board the C. S. S. Sumter at Gibraltar.

C. S. COMMISSION,
London, October 30, 1862.
	SIR: It becomes my painful duty to inform the Government of an
occurrence which has recently happened on board the C. S. ship Sumter,
lying in the bay of Gibraltar.
	Captain Semmes and his officers having been transferred t6 the Ala-
bama, the Sumter was left in charge of a midshipman and boats crew
only, a guard deemed sufficient by Captain Semmes. On the 14th of
this month I received a letter from Sergeant Stephenson of the marines
(one of those left in charge of the ship) that Acting Midshipman
Andrews (in command) had been shot and killed by one of the men
named Hester, who was masters mate; that Hester had been taken
into custody by the civil authorities there, and asking for instructions.
I immediately replied by telegraph to Sergeant Stephenson, directing
him to take charge of the ship and the public property on board, and.
that an officer would be sent at once to relieve him.
Lieutenant Chapman, a former officer of the Sumter, was then in
Paris on duty assigned him by the Secretary of the Navy. In the
emergency I wrote to him to proceed itumediately to Gibraltar and
take command of the ship; after the death of Midshipman Andrews
and the arrest of the masters mate the only person on board having
the semblance of authority being the sergeant of marines. Some days
after I received a letter dated on board the Sumter the 17th of October,
signed by all the ships crew (only nine in nmnber), including the ser-
geant of marines, denonneing in strong terms the act of Hester as a
cool, deliberate mnrder, and promising that everything should be done
by those on board to take care of the ship until farther orders. I
subsequently received two letters from a Mr. George F. Coruwell, dated
respectively at Gibraltar the 17th and 22d of October, informng me
that he had been engaged as counsel by Hester, and stating that the
latter fully avowed the act, and vindicated it on the ground that
Midshipman Andrews had expressed his determination to take the vessel out of
this port (Gibraltar) and give her up at Algeciras to the U. S. S. Supply, then in the
latter port, and had threatened to shoot anyone who opposed his purpose. Mr.
Hester not being (as he says) able to rely on the crew, adopted this fatal coirse, and
believes that he has only done his duty.

	I should have stated above that in the letter from the crew of the
Sumter no particulars of the affair were given nor anything stated as
the cause of the act, except as in the following paragraph, quoted from
that letter:
	As regards the accusation made by Mr. Hester against Mr. Andrews being a traitor,
it is, as far as we all know, entirely without foundation, for he was one that was
beloved and respected by all that knew him, more especially by his crew

Page 689

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	689

	Lieutenant Chapman came immediately to London on receipt of my
letter (as the shortest route to Gibraltar) and sailed for that port in
the mail packet on Monday last, the 27th instant. He should have
arrived there yesterday.
	I instructed Lieutenant Chapman to make full enquiry into the affair
and its circumstances and to report them accordingly. In the letters
of Mr. Coruwell, the counsel, he reports the earnest request of Hester
that I would provide means for his defense,and in his last letter a like
earnest request that I would take measures to have the prisoner
restored to the jurisdiction of the Confederate States, fearing the result
of a trial by the British authorities. He farther requests that meas-
ures may be taken to have certain officers of the Sumter (including
Lieutenant Chapman) brought as witnesses on his behalf at his trial.
	I can form no opinion of what it may be proper for me to do in the
premises until I get the report of Lieutenant Chapman. Should there
be reasonable foundation for the alleged belief of Hester that Andrews
designed the surrender of the ship to the enemy, I shall consider it my
duty to do whatever may be found best to give him the full benefit of
the proofs he may adduce. On the question of jurisdiction, it would
certainly be right that he should be tried under the authority of our
Government; but even should the jurisdiction be yielded by the British
Government (which in our unrecognized condition is by no means cer-
tain) I should be at a great loss to know how to bring the prisoner to
trial and what to do with him in the meantime. This, however, can be
only or best determined after getting Lieutenant Chapmans report.
	I have further to state that in the dilemma arising out of this unfor-
tunate affair, and with the entire concurrence and advice of Captains
Bulloch and Sinclair, of the Navy, as well as of Lieutenant Chapman,
I have determined to have the Sumter sold, and have taken measures
to have the sale made by Captain Bulloch, the senior officer in the
~service here. Her armament and such stores of clothing, etc., as can
be used in fitting out other ships will be reserved.
	Lieutenant Chapmans report shall be transmitted as soon as received
to the Secretary of the Navy.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	M. MASON.

Hon. J. P. BENJAMIN,
Secretary of State.



Letter from Commander Dulloch, C. S. Navy, to the Secretary of the Navy of the Confederate
States, regarding arrangements for the sale of the C. S. S. Sumter.


LIvERPooL, November 21, 1862.
	SIR: Since the date of the letter enclosed with this I have received
authority from the Hon. James M. Mason, by whose order Captain
Semmes laid up the Sumter at Gibraltar, to sell that vessel with all
her equipments, and to dispose of the latter in such manner as would
most conduce to the interests of the Confederate Government. I have
taken the steps necessary to effect this purpose by engaging a ship
broker to go to Gibraltar and to have the Sumter appraised by experts,
and Messrs. Fraser, Trenholm &#38; Co. have agreed to buy her at the
appraised value should no one bid higher. I hope, therefore, to have
123A4

Page 690

690 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.


the sale concluded in a fortnight, and will pass whatever sum she may
bring to the credit of the Navy Department.
	*	*	*	*	*

I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
	JAMES D. BULLOCH,
Commander, C. S. Navy.
	IJon. S. R. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy.


Letter from Commander Bulloch, C. S. Navy, to Hon. 3. If. Mason, C. S. commissioner at
London, regarding arrangements for the sale of the C. S. S. Sumter at Gibraltar.


LIVERPOOL, November 26, [1862]
	SIR: Your letter enclosing one from the honorable Secretary of the
Navy, acquainting Captain Semmes of hispromotion, has been received,
and I will take the first opportunity of forwarding it, althoi~gh I fear
it will be some time before Captain Semmes can inform me of his next
place of rendezvous.
	You will be pleased to learn that all the arrangements for selling the
Sumter have been perfected, and the agent for conducting the appraise-
ment and sale is on his way to Gibraltar. Several enquiries have been
made in reference to her, and I am greatly in hopes that we will realize
6,000 by the transaction.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAMES D. BIJLLOCH.
Hon. JAMES M. MASON.



Letter from Hon. 3. If. Mason, C. S. commissioner at London, to the Secretary of State of the
Confederate States, regarding the trial of Hester for the murder of Acting Midshipman
Andrews, C. S. Navy.

CONFEDERATE STATES COMMISSION,
London, December 10, 1862.
	SIR:	* * * Referring to my No. 18, I have to add that since its
datel received a full report from Lieutenant Chapman, which leaves little
doubt that the allegation of Hester that Midshipman Andrews designed
to surrender the Sumter to the enemy was altogether a fabrication; and
that the true cause of the murder was that Hester had just been detected
by Andrews in pilfering the public property in the ship.
	On the question of remanding the prisoner for trial by the Confed-
erate authorities, 1 have stated the difficulties that were presented in
my No. 18. Subsequently I presented the question fully for the advice of
Mr. Slidell and was happy to find that he agreed with me as to the
expediency, or indeed the necessity, of leaving the matter in the hands
of the British authorities. I have thought it due, however, as Hester
was a petty officer in the Navy and had no means of providing for his
defense, that he shonld not be left without some provision for the
expenses of counsel and witnesses, and have directed Lieutenant
Chapman accordingly.
	In my No. 18 I stated also that I had determined to have the Sumter
sold, and the reasons for it. The whole subject of the sale was com-
mitted to Captain Bulloch, C. S. Navy, as the senior naval officer, and
I learn by telegraph this morning from Gibraltar that the ship has
been sold to a British house; the price not stated. The proceeds of th

Page 691

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE
691

sale will be turned over to Captain Bulloch, in charge of the naval
funds here.
	Will you be good enough to communicate this dispatch to the Secre-
tary of the Navy?
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	Hon. J. P. BENJAMIN,	M. MASON.
Secretary of State.



Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Hon. 3. K. Mason, C. S. commissioner at London,
expressing approval of his action in regard to the C. S. S Sumter.

CONFEDERATE STATES OF AMERICA,
Navy Department, Richmond, February 22, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your dispatch
of the 11th of December, 1862, enclosing the report of Lieutenant Chap.
man, C. S. Navy, of the 10th of November 1
unfortunate occurrence on board the ASumter. 862, in relation to the
Your course with regard to that vessel is approved by this Depart.
ment	and you have its thanks for your prompt attention.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
	S. ill. MALLORY,
	Hon. JAMES M. MASON	Secretary of the Navy.
Commissioner of Confederate States, London, England.



Extracts from the journal of Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Sumter,
from May 24, 1861, to April 11, 1862.

	New Orleans, May 24, 1861.jA month has elapsed since I began the
preparation of the Sumter for sea, and yet we are not ready. Leeds
&#38; Co. have not given us our tanks, and we only received the carriage
for the 8-inch gun to-day. The officers are all present and the crew
has been shipped, and all are impatient to be off. The river is not yet
blockaded, but expected to be to-morrow. It must be a close blockade
and by heavy vessels that will keep us in. Troops are being collected
in large numbers in the enemy~s States. Marchings and countermarch-
ings are going on and the fleet seems to be kept very busy scouring hither
and thither, but nothing accomplished. Whilst penning the last para-
graph news reaches us that the Lincoln Government has crossed the
Potomac and invaded Virginia. Thus commences a bloody and a bit-
ter war. So be it; we but accept the gauntlet which has been flung in
our faces. The future will tell a tale worthy of the South and her noble
cause.
	Monday, May 27.News received this morning of the appearance at
Pass ~ lOutre yesterday of the U. S. S. Brooklyn, and of the establish-
ment of the blockade. Work is progressing satisfactorily upon the
Sumter and I expect to be ready for sea by Sunday next. News of
skirmishing in Virginia and of fresh arrivals of the Northern hordes at
Washington en route for that State.
	Thursday, May 30.My patience is sorely tried by the New Orleans
mechanics. The water tanks for the Sumter are not yet completed

Page 692

692 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

The carriage for the 8-inch gun was finished to-day, and we are laying
down the circles and cutting the holes for the fighting bolts. The car-
riages for the 32-pounders are promised by Saturday next, and also the
copper tanks for the magazine. Our ammunition and small arms
arrived yesterday from Baton IRouge. Besides the Brooklyn at the
passes, the Niagara and Minnesota are in the gulf watching for the
arrival of some ships bound to this port laden with arms and ammuni-
tion.
	Friday, May 31.The tanks are at last finished and they have all
been delivered to-day. We shall now get on rapidly with our prepar-
ations.
	AS~aturday, June 1, finds us not yet ready for sea. The taLks have all
been taken on board and stowed; the gun carriages for the 32s will be
finished on Monday. The circles for the 8-inch have been laid down
and the fighting bolts are ready for placing. On Monday I shall throw
the crew on board, and by Thursday next I shall without doubt be
ready for sea. In the meantime both the practicable passes are block-
aded, the one by the Brooklyn and the other by the Powhatan, but for-
tune will favor us and we shall run by.
	Monday, June 3.Filled the tanks and received the crew on board.
The 32-pounder carriages not yet ready, but promised us for to-morrow.
	Tuesday, June 18.At length, after many vexatious delays, I have
been enabled to leave the city of New Orleans. This morning at 10:30
a. m. we got up steam and dropped down to the barracks magazine
and took in our powder. Weather very warm and mosquitoes very
troublesome. At 10:30 p. m. got up steam again and steaThed down the
river. Night clear and beautiful.
	Wednesday, June 19.At 4 a. in. came to anchor between Forts St.
Philip and Jackson. Captain Braiid called on board on the part of
the commanding officer, Major Duncan. At 11 visited Major Duncan
at Fort Jackson and witnessed some experimental firing. The fort is
an attractive spot, with plenty of green grass and fine shade trees.
The object of my stopping here for a few days is to station my crew
and drill them at the guns, they being entirely green and having been
called to quarters to-day for the first time. We have a very distant
view of Pass a lOutre, and can just distinguish with our glasses an
enemy~5 ship, supposed to be the Brooklyn.
	Thursday, June 20.Exercised the crew at quarters, and in the
afternoon practiced at target firing. Called on Governor Moore at
Fort Jackson (the governor having come down to inspect the fortifica-
tions) and brought him on board with Mr. John Slidell and others to
visit the ship.
	Fridy, June 21.Practiced the crew at division quarters in the morn-
ing and at general quarters in the afternoon and tried a couple of shell
with the Borman fuse. Just at nightfall I received the following dis-
patch:
HEADQUARTERS FORTS JACKSON AND ST. PHILIP,
June 21, 1861.
	CAPTAIN:	I am desired by the commanding officer to state that the Thy reports
that the Powhatan has left in pursuit of two ships, and that he has received a tele-
gram from Pass a lOutre to the effect that a boat from the Brooklyn had put into
the river and was making for the telegraph station, where she was expected to
arrive in a few minutes.

	Got up steam and steamed down to the Head of the Passes, where
we came to at 10:30 p. m. Dispatched a boat to the light-house to pro-
cure a pilot, but the keeper knew nothing of the pilots and was unwil

Page 693

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	693

big to come on board, though requested. Sent a boat also on board
the Ivy, privateer, with a request either that she would supply us with
a pilot or go down to the Southwest Pass and procure one.
	Saturday, June 22.The Ivy returned from the pa~s and reported
that none of the pilots were willing to come on board, and having
received also the following dispatch (through Captain Duncan) from
the Southwest Pass, viz:
	Applied to the captain of the house of pilots for a pilot for the Sumter. He
requested me to state that there are no pilots on duty now.
F.	S. WOOLFLEN.

	I dispatched Lieutenant Stribling in the ivy with a written order to
the master of the Pilots Association to come on board of me and bring
some of his pilots with him, and, in case of his refusal dii
arrest them all and bring them on board.	ected him to
Sunday, June 23.Yesterday the master of the Pilots Association
and several of his pilots came on board, having been brought by the
Ivy. With the exception of the master, they all agreed to take the
ship to sea, whereupon I retained one of them and dismissed the rest.
Both the Brooklyn and Powhatan at their anchors all day, close under
the respective bars which they guard. Weather very warm and, sultry.
Mustered the crew at general quarters. Sent dispatches to town by
the steamer Empire Parish. In the afternoon dispatched Lieutenant
Stribling in the Seminole, in tow of the Ivy, to Pass ~ lOutre to destroy
the oil at the light-house and bring away the lanips, so as to prevent
the enemy from having the use of the light. The object was accom-
plished. Received on board from Fort St. Philip a 24-pounder howitzer
for use on the spar deck.
	Monday, June 24.This morning dispatched an officer on board the
Ivy to bring away the oil and lamps froni the South Pass, that that
light may also be extinguished. The object was accomplished. All
the seacoast lights at the passes are now out. Both blockading vessels
are lying dose at their anchors and
Pass ~ lOutre.	,	there is an additional vessel at
	Tuesday, June 25.A thunderstorm and heavy rain at 3:30 a.
clearing off at 10 a. m. Visited the light-house at the Head of the
Passes and took a receipt for the property deposited there, from the
iPass ~ lOutre and South Pass houses. Visited also the telegraphic
station and held communication with both passes. Both blockading
ships still at their anchors. The British steam sloop Jason was off the
Southwest Pass yesterday. Received intelligence that the enemy had
taken possession of Ship Island and established a blockade of the
sound. Filling shell and cartridges and drilling my very green crew.
	Wednesday, June 26.Cloudy and occasional rain squalls. The ivy
returned from the city and brought me eighty barrels of coal. Sent
the pilot in the light-house keepers boat to sound the southeast bar.
The Federal ships keep close watch at the bars, neither having stirred
from her anchor since my arrival here.
	Thursday, June 27.Weather sultry and atmosphere charged with
moisture. Pilot not yet returned. At 10 p. m. yesterday received a
note from the telegraphic operator stating that he could get no response
from the station at the Southwest Pass. Dispatched a guard boat
down the pass a couple of miles to watch the approach. The Ivy has
gone down Pass ?t lOutre. Pilot finds lOA feet at the southeast bar.
	Friday, June 28.Clear ami sultry, with little or no wind. The
blockaders sticking close to their anchors as usual. Sent a guard boat
down the Southwest Pass again yesterday evening

Page 694

694 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Saturday, June 29. The pilot having reported from aloft that the
Brooklyn was no where to be seen, got up steam immediately and ran
down Pass ~i lUutre with the intention of running the blockade, but
after running down the pass 3 or 4 miles we were disappointed to learn
that the ship was still at her anchors, our drifting from our own anchor
having caused us to shut the Brooklyn in behind some trees, which
gave rise to the pilots mistake. Returned to our anchorage, changing
our position a little to the northward. At 10 p. m. dispatched guard
boats down both the passes. At about 11:30 p. m. the telegraphic
operator from Pass ~X lOutre reported that the enemy had sent a boat
to the station and carried off his instruments.
	Sunday, June 30.Dies mem.orabilis. At about 2 a. in. the steamer
Empire Parish came alongside and put on board of us about 100 barrels
of coal. At 10:30 a. m. this steamer having returned from Pass ~
lOutre, a boatman pulled under our stern and informed us that the
Brooklyn was no where to be seen, and that the pass was all clear.
We immediately got underway and steamed down the pass. The pilot,
becoming alarmed, expressed his unwillingness to take us out, as he
had not been out of the pass for three months and would not run us
ashore for anything. This was really provoking. However, I hoisted
my jack for a pilot, and as good luck would have it, as I ran by the pilot
station a bold fellow jumped on board of me and his wife waved him
on to his duty as we passed, and we continued on our course rapidly for
the bar. In the meantime we had some time before discovered the
Brooklyn some 7 or 8 miles to the southward of the bar under steam
and hurrying up to prevent our escape. We dashed by the Bremen
ship on the bar which considerately slacked a bow warp to let us pass
more conveniently, and hauling close round her head spars to the north-
ward, we were in a few moments outside of the bar. The Brooklyn
had by this time approac~ied us within about 4 miles, and was making
every effort to overhaul us. A deeply .exciting chase commenced, and
I was for some time doubtful of my success. The Brooklyn had the
reputation of being very fast both under sail and steam, and I was very
doubtful whether my gallant little ship had the heels of her. The
Brooklyn having made sail, wedid the same, steering first N. N. E., then.
N.E. by N., then N.E., then N.E. by E., and so hauling in a gradual
curve seaward. The Brooklyn having emerged from a squall in which
she had been hid loomed up very large with her heavy battery and
tall spars, her flag being plainly distinguishable at her peak. At length
it began to be perceptible that we were dropping her by slow degrees~
and my excited nervous system experienced a partial relaxation from
the tension to which it had been strained for the last three hours. At
3:30 the Brooklyn, seeing that we had the heels of her, gave up the
chase and bore up to the northward. Called on hands, sent them into
the rigging and gave three cheers for the Confederate flag, after which,
by invitation, I met the officers in the wardroom and drank a glass of
wine with them in honor of the event. It was a positive luxury as the
evenino set in to breathe the pure air and look over the vast expanse
of blue waters, with the feeling of a liberated prisoner. What an event-
ful career we have before us! May the Almighty smile npon us and
our cause, and may we show ourselves worthy servants of Him and it.
Night beautiful and starlight, with a light in the north throwing a
pencil of rays to the northeast as if lighting us on our way.
	Monday, July 1.Weather beautiful and clear, with the deep blue
sea rolling brightly around us, and a gentle breeze from the southward
and westward. We have seen no sail since we lost sight of the Brook

Page 695

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	695

iyn, and have averaged a speed of about 8 knots. Latitude at noon,
260 18. north; longitude, 870 23, steering S. S. E. Calm at nightfall,
with a sky full of stars. A brilliant comet bearing about N. N. E. was
visible in the early part of the night.
	Tuesday, July 2.Day begins clear and beauThiful. At 8 a. m. struck
the N.E. trades,made sail in aid of the steam, and ordered moderate
steam carried. Toward noon a few trade squalls, with light showers of
rain, passed over. Course since 8 last evening, S. S. E. ~ E.; latitude at
noon, 230 04; longitude, 860 13. During the night doubled Cape [San]
Antonio, experiencing a northerly current of from three-fourths to 1
mile per hour, which caused us to make San Antonio Light ahead,
steering east instead of passing it out of sight to the southward, as
we should have done but for the current.
	Wednesday, July 3.Weather cloudy, with a fresh trade from E. to
E. S. E. and some sea. At 9 a. m. off Cape Corrientes. At meridian
latitude 210 29, longitude 84~ 06. Soon after meridian made two sail
nearly ahead. Gave chase and came up, first with a Spanish brig from
Cadiz to Vera Cruz, and secondly with the U. S. ship Golden Rocket, of
Bangor, Me., in ballast. Took out of her some provisions and a few
other articles for the use of the ship, and at 10 p. in., havi:-~g accom-
plished this and brought the master and crew on board, set fire to and
burned her, west end of Isle of Pines bearing about E. N. E. and dis-
tant 10 or 12 miles. Our first prize made a beautiful bonfire and we
did not enjoy the spectacle the less because she was from the black
Republican State of Maine. The Golden Rocket was a ship of 690 tons,
three years old, and was worth from $30,000 to $40,000. Night cloudy.
	Thursday, July 4.Weather cloudy, with a few rain squalls during
the morning. At daylight descried two sail ahead. Gave chase and
came up with, first the U. S. brigantine Cuba, and secondly with the
U. ~S. brigantine lliiiachias, of the everlasting State of Maine. Captured
them both and took them in tow for Cienfuegos; speed, 5 miles per
hour. Both these vessels are from Trinidad de Cuba, loaded with
sugar and molasses, for English ports. Cargoes stated in the papers
to be Spanish property. Night cloudy.
	Friday, July 5.Cloudy, with a moderate trade. Just before daylight
one of the prizes broke adrift. Recovered her and let go the one we
had in tow and directed the officer in charge to work his way into
Cienfuiegos. At about 2 p. in. crossed the shoal off the east end of the
reef of the Jardinillos, in 5 and 6 and 7, etc., fathoms water, and hauled
up N. E. by N., which course ran us some 6 or 7 miles to the westward
of the light. As we approached the light we descried two sail in the
southeast, distant sonic 8 or 9 miles. Cast off our tow and gave chase.
At about 9.30 came up with and captured the U. S. brigantines Ben
Dunning and Albert Adams, and put prize crews on board of them.
Stood off and on the light during the night.
	Saturday, July 6.Morning clear, with a light land breeze. Soon
after sunrise three sail came out of the harbor. Waited patiently
until they were all more than a marine league from the land, when we
gave chase and captured them. They were as follows, viz, the bark
West Wind, the brigantine Naiad, and bark Lewis Kilham. Put prize
crews on board of them. At about meridian the sea breeze set in and
soon afterwards our prizes coming up, to the number of six, I sent them
all into the port, and followed them myself. As we passed the fort we
were hailed, and at the same tune a couple of muskets were fired at us,
and we were directed to anchor, which we did. I then sent Lieutenant
Evans on shore to call on the commandant and ask an explanation of ou

Page 696

696 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

being stopped. Lieutenant Evans reported that the commandant said
he did not recognize (that is, know) our flag, and that it was the order
of the port to stop all vessels (of war, and others), until the flag could be
distinguished. In the evening the commandant called on me to say
that he had the governors orders to permit me to proceed to the town
or to sea as I might prefer, but he informed me at the same time that
the governor would detain my prizes.
	Sunday, July 7.Morning clear and beautiful, the waters of the lit.
tle harbor clear and sparkling, and the bright green of the vegetation
on shore looking picturesque and cheerful. At 8 a. in., Lieutenant
Chapman, whom I had sent to town yesterday to look after the prh~es,
make arrangements for coaling, and present a dispatch to the governor,
returned, bringing with him a couple of Cuban gentlemen (Isnaga and
IDias), warm sympathizers in our cause. Ii appointed one of them prize
agent (Don Mariano Dias). One hundred tons of coal and about 5,000
gallons of water were towed alongside for us during the day, and were
got in Fresh provisions were also sent on board for the crew. About
10 p. m. I received a reply from the governor, He informed me that
the captain-general had instructed him as follows, viz: First. No
cruiser of either party can bring their prizes into Spanish ports. Sec-
ond. If in my captures the territory of Cuba has been violated, the
Spanish courts will themselves judge of the matter. Third. My prizes
will be detained until the Queen can be heard from. We got up our
anchor soon after 11 p. in., and passed outside the harbor at midnight.
Nothing of our prize brig, the Cuba, and Midshipman iludgins.
	Monday, July 8.During the forenoon gave chase to a brigantine
which showed Spanish colors. Kept on our course. Passed the Cay-
mans between 9 and 10 p. m. The islets are laid down some 15 or 16
miles too far to the westward.
	Tuesday, July 9.Weather clear,with the wind fresh from the E. S. E.
At daylight made the west end of the island of Jamaica, the island in
sight all day, the blue mountains dimmed by the haze that hung over
them. Struggling against a very strong trade.
	July 10.Weather clear, wind very fresh, right in our teeth and
considerable sea on. At 1:30 this morning I went upon the companion
ladder, to give some directions to the officer of the deck, as to not driv-
ing her through the head sea, and while so doing I felt a sudden sickness
of the stomach and reeling of the brain. I laid my head on umy arm,
thinking the sensation would soon pass off, but in a monient more I lost
consciousness and tumbled from the top to the bottom of the ladder
upon the cabin floor, where I remained senseless for a moment. I was
much bruised in the left side by the fall, the concussion of the pleura
and lung causing a difficulty in breathing. * Confined to my
hammock during the day. We are out of the track of commerce, and
no sail has been seen to-day.
	Thursday, July 11.The tenacious trade wind blows as fiercely as
ever, and we are struggling and plunging through it; no more than an
average of 5 knots. Hard upon our coal, which is so precious. No
sail has been seen to-day. I have been confined most of the day to my
hammock.
	Friday, July 12.Heavy head wind and sea, and the steamer labor-
ing and pitching into it and scarcely making four knots. A serious
drawback, as we are consuming our limited supply of fuel and making
no progress. Thick weather and squalls of rain. Still confined to my
cabin. No sail seen.
	Saturday, July 13.Blowing a moderate gale of wind, with a ver

Page 697

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	697

heavy head sea. We made no progress at all during the last night.
In this state of things, Ii have heen obliged to change my intention, which
was to go to Barbados. We can not make the distance with our fuel.
I, therefore, caused the ship to be put under sail and hcr fires to be
permitted to go down, and resolved to make my way to Cnra(;ao, hoping
to be able to coal at that place. Heavy sea all night, and ship tumb-
ling about, though doing prdtty well under sail. I am suffering much
with nausea and debility and from the effects of my fall, and am con-
fined to my cabin. A sail on the port bow, but too rough to chase.
	Sunday, July 14.Wind still fresh, with a heavy sea; making 5 knots
under sail, with the wind about a point free. Did not muster the crew,
but allowed them to rest. No sail seen. I am getting no better. Have
been confined nearly all day to my hammock with nausea and debility
and pain in the left side.
	Monday, July 15.The weather moderating, and the sea going down,
though still rough. Nothing seen. In the afternoon pleasant, with a
moderate trade. I feel better to-day, for the first time in six days.
Thanks.
	Tuesday, July 16.Clear, with flying trade clouds, and the wind
blowing almost a gale. At 9 a. m. mado land on the starboard bow,
which proved to be the island of Oruba, we having had a strong west-
erly current during the night. At 11 a. m. made Curaao on the port
bow. Passed the north end of the island about 4 p. in., and ran down
the coast within about a mile of St. Annes [Santa Anal, off which we
arrived at a little past 7 oclock. Fired a gun for a pilot. A pilot
came off and promised to take us in in the morning. Lay off and on
until daylight. Feeling no better to-day.
	Wednesday, July 17.Clear ;~the trade blew all night at a mile or
two from the coast. At 7 ran in and received the following message
from the governor by the pilot:
	The governor regrets, but he can not permit you to enter, he having received
recent orders from the home Government to this effect.
	Sent Lieutenant Chapman with a letter to the governor. Lieutenant
Chapman returned at 10:30, and at 11 we ran in and came to anchor in
the lagooh. The Yankee consul had been to see the governor the pre.
vions night, and the pilot, no doubt, did not state truly our description,
etc. The bumboats, with their picturesque inmates of all colors, are
chattering like so many parrots around the ship. Made arrangements
for filling up with coal, wood, and water, and for giving fresh provisions
to the crew. Our entrance created great commotion along the quay,
the people running to get a sight of the new steamer with the strange
flag. Cura~ao is a picturesque Dutch town, built in the style of
Amsterdam, and lining the seashore and both sides of the entrance.
We are in a land-locked basin, with sterile, jagged peaks rising all
around us. At this season of the year the trade wind blows a gale all
da.y long here. I feel better, having received a bottle of milk and some
fresh meat and vegetables from the shore.
	Thursday, July 18.Fresh trade wind and clear. Employed refitting
and repairing the small damages of our late cruise. Sent a lieutenant
with my card to call on the governor and to excuse my not calling in
person on account [of] indisposition. I was visited to-day by a Vene-
zuelan, who spoke En glish and who represented himself as a messenger
or agent of President Castro, who is now here in exile with four of his
cabinet ministers, and who proposed to me, on the part of Castro, to
take him (Castro) and some twenty officers with some arms and ammu-
nition to the mainland opposite. I declined this proposition. first

Page 698

698 OPERATIONS 01? THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

because I was not going in the direction indicated, and, second, if I
were it would be an undue interference on the part of a neutral with
the revolutionary parties now contending for the control of Venezuela.
It was remarked that Castro was the de jure president, to which I
replied that we did not look into these matters, the opposite party
being in the defacto possession of the Government. No arrival in the
harbor.
	Friday, July 19.Wind unusually blustering this morning, with
partial obscuration of the heavens. Refitting engine, battery, rigging,
etc. An English bark entered to-day from Liverpool.
	Saturday night, July 20.Painting and refitting ship. Got off the
new fore-topmast from shore. The monthly packet arrived to-day from
St. Thomas, bringing papers from the enemys country to the 26th of
June. We get nothing new.
	Sunday, July 21.Fresh trade wind with passing clouds. Atmos-
phere highly charged with moisture. Mustered the crew and read the
articles of war and a general order announcing the decision of a court-
martial; permitted the crew to go on liberty in detachments.
	]Jilionday, July 22.Warped alongside a wharf in the edge of the town
and commenced receiving coal. Refitting and repainting ship. In the
afternoon I took a stroll through the town. It is a quaint, picturesque-
looking place, with some evidenCes of improvements, as the building of
new houses, etc., but the general air was that of little business and
want of thrift. The St. Thomas packet sailed.
	Tuesday, July 23.Still coaling, refitting, painting, etc. Weather
more cloudy and wind not so constantly flesh within the last few days.
Took sights for chronometers; longitL.de 680 58 30 W.
	Wednesday, July 24.Sky occasionally obscured, with a moderate
trade wind. Having completed our ~reperations for sea we got under-
way at meridian and stood out of the harbor. John Orr, one of oar
worthless ordinary seamen, deserted just before leaving, enticed away,
no doubt, by a Yankee captain and the Yankee keeper of a public
house. The police and the governor were notified, but we did not get
him. The pilot said he was suspected to be in a certain house, but the
house could not be searched.
	Thursday, July 25.Light breeze from the land and pleasant; the
coast of Venezuela near; La Gu ayra in sight, distant about 30 miles.
At daylight made a sail on the port bow and gave chase. At 6:30
came up with and captured the American schooner Abby Bradford, from
New York to Puerto Cabello. Took her in tow and squared away for
Puerto Cabello. Night fell before we reached the port. Stood oft and
on until daylight.
	Friday, July 26.Weather clear and pleasant. Ran along the land
to the westward again at daylight ,and soon after made the fort on the
hill above the town of Puerto Cabello. Ran past the group of small
islands that outlie the town [to] the eastward, all of which are bold,
and anchored in the port at S a. m. without a pilot. Dispatched a~
letter to the governor requesting permission to leave my prize until
adjudication. Replied that it was beyond his functions to entertain
this question, and that I must depart in twenty-four hours. Land-
scape as bold and lovely as a picture of mountain scenery. Had
proposition for the sale of the cargo.
	Saturday, July 27.At daylight sent a prize crew on board the Abby
Bradford and directed her to proceed to New Orleans. At 6 got under-
way and stood out. As we were weighing anchor discovered a sail
seaward, to which we gave chase and captured about 7 miles from th

Page 699

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	699

land. She proved to be the bark Joserh ]lfaxwell, of Philadelphia.
Sent the master in, with the paymaster, to make propositions to the
neutral owner of one-half of the cargo for the delivery to him of his
half and for the sale of the other half and of the ship. To my sur-
prise, the governor sent me an order to bring my prize within the
port and leave her until the courts of Venezuela could decide the ques-
tion whether the ship was not captured within the marine league.
Stood out to the prize, standing by our guns; sent the master and his
family ashore in one of the prizes boats, and put a prize crew on board
and dispatched the prize to a port on the south side of Cuba. At ~
stood on our course to the eastward. At 5 passed a Yankee hermaph-
rodite brig running within jumping distance of the land.
	&#38; tnday, July 28.Clear and pleasant, with a moderate trade wind.
At 9:30 a. m. gave chase to a sail ahead, which proved to be a Vene-
zuelan schooner. At 11 mustered the crew. In the afternoon passe&#38; 
the island of Tortuga, and at 11 p. in., having come up with the west
end of Margarita, hove the ship to with her head to the northward te
await daylight. Depth of water, 32 fathoms.
	]Jitonday, July 29, 1861.Clear and pleasant, with a moderate trade
wind all day. At meridian passed between the island of Margarita
and the Frayles; a number of fishing boats in sight from time to time~
Evening, running along the coast of Venezuela to the eastward.
	Tuesday, July 30.Thick, cloudy weather and heavy rains. Haul-
ing in to the coast of Venezuela near the entrance to the gulf of Para.
So thick is the weather that to hold on to the land I am obliged to
run the shore within a mile. Opened the gulf at about 9 a. m. and
soon afterwards got a sight of and identified the three islands forming
the Bocas of the Drego [Dragons Mouth]. Ran the iluevos or
Umbrella Passage, a vessel from Madeira having entered it just before
me. It is bold and the scenery very striking. Anchored off the town
of Port of Spain at a little after noon, and sent a lieutenant to pay my
respects to the governor. An English brig passing out saluted us with
her ensign. Officer returned; governor tenders me the hospitality of
the port ~qnal1y with the other belligerent, but snobbishly objected to
the lieutenants card; free niggerdom. Thirty-five years ago I was
here as a midshipman! A generation has since passed away. So brief
is thy life, 0 man! Afternoon, rain. Too much rain has greatly
injured the sugar crop. Coolie trade flourishes here.
	Wednesday, July 31.Morning clear, afternoon rain, this being the
rainy season. We have been all day negotiating about bringing off
our coal, the excuse of the merchant being that he has to depend on
free negro labor, which is difficult to procure. A large proportion of
the population of the town is of this class, upon whom the whites are
more or less dependent for labor and service of every description.
This is another of those fine islands that Great Britain has destroyedi
by her act of emancipation. The abrupt and varied scenery of the
hills at the foot of which the town is situated affords a charming
picture of the luxuriance of tropical nature. * * Landed the
prisoners of the Joseph JVIaxwell, eight in number, having put all on
parole except the two negroes.
	Thursday, August 1.Rain, rain, rain, with occasional intervals of
sunshine. Receiving coal very slowly. The governor, as appears from
the Gazette newspaper, took the opinion of the law officers of the
Crown as to the legality of my being permitted to coal. A long editorial
upon our arrival, and hints thrown out that we may be a privateer.
	Friday, August 2.Early morning clear; too soon the clouds gathere

Page 700

TOO OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

and the heavy rains of the season set in, in the interval of the showers
the tropical scenery showing out in the most attractive colors. Several
ships have departed, leaving only some half dozen in the harbor. The
master of a Baltimore brig called on board to learn whether I would
capture him. Told him to depart freely, as our declaration of war
exempted all Maryland vessels from capture. Received a visit from a
couple of English officers in citizens dress. The governor has not
returned the visit of my lieutenant.
	Saturday, August 3.Not so much rain to-day. Finished coaling,
although I am not full, to avoid being further cheated in the measure
by the scoundrel who is putting it in. Got off and got up the new
main yard. Am again ready for sea.
	Sunday, August 4.Morning calm and clear. The chimes of the
church bells from the shore fall pleasantly and suggestively on the ear.
A U. S. schooner came in from some point up the bay. At 10:30 gave
the order to get up steam, but the paymaster reporting some of his
vouchers not in form, the order was countermanded and he was per-
mitted to go on shore to rectify the mistake; and the English steam
frigate Gadmus coming into the bay a short time after, I gave up the
idea of going to sea to-day. Sent an officer to call on the captain of
the Gadmus. The visit was returned soon after by a lieutenant from
that vessel, who, after saying that he came to return my visit, said
that his captain had directed him to say to me that as this ship was
the first vessel of the Confederate States he had fallen in with, he
would be glad if I would show him my commission, to which I replied
Icould have no objection,but that the courtesy of the case required
that he should first show me his commission. This he immediately
did, whereupon I showed him mine. In strictness, perhaps, the captain
(ilillyar) should have sent his own commission on board instead of
that of his lieutenant, but I did not wish to appear captious, and as the
courtesy of the case was satisfied, this was all that was necessary.
	Monday, August 5.Weather clear and fine. At 11 a. m. I was visited
by Captain ilillyar, of the Gadmus, who brought me aNew York Express
of the 12th July, and made himself very agreeable. The war appeared
a very extraordinary affair to him, and he could not suppose that it
would continue long. He rather thought the supplying us with coal
was touching upon the contraband, but this, he said, was a question
for the law officers of the Crown, and might be decided differently in
different places. I complained to him of the injustice of the neutral
rule excluding us from bringing in our prizes, and he acknowledged
that it did work unequally as I explained it, and ended by asking why
I did not sell my prizes in the ports of the [Spanish] Main, these fel-
lows not being very particular. At 1 p. m. we got up steam and went
to sea, passing out of the Eastern or Mona [Monos] Island Passage
[Gulf of Paria], very narrow, about the third of a mile, with a rock
standing off the northeast end of Mona [Monos]. Running along the
very picturesque coast during the afternoon, many huts, but little or
no cultivation being visible on the mountain sides. Passed out of the
strait between Trinidad and Tobago at 10:30 p. m. and entered upon
the broad South Atlantic.
	Tuesday, August 6.Weather very fine, with light breezes from
about E.N. E., making good way over the smooth sea. At about 10
a. m. passed a brigantine on the weather beam, distant some 12 or 14
miles. As I was anxious to make my run and had no fuel to spare
upon chases and the delay incident to capture, I permitted this lonely
wayfarer to pursue his course unmolested, for which some Yankee ma

Page 701

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUiSERSCONFEDERATE.	701

no doubt thank his stars and my circumstances, not my forbearance..
No current experienced. Latitude, 90 14 ion gitude, 590 10.
	Wednesday, August 7.Weather clear and delightful and the sea
smooth. We have seen nothing during the day, flocks of flying fish being
the only living things that meet our view. Exercising the crew, now
made somewhat short by the absence of three prize crews. Averaged in
the last twenty-four hours 8A knots per hour. No current of any kind..
Latitude, 8031; longitude, 56~ 12. At 2:30 p. m. descried a brigantine,
chased her for an hour and a half running four points out of our course,
and fired a blank cartridge at her, when she showed Dutch colors. We
thus threw away 13 miles on a Dutchman. Brought the ship back to
her course. Toward nightfall, calm.
	Thursday, August 8.Weather clear, with an occasional rain squall.
Wind light and variable, but always from the eastward, following the
sun as the chariot follows the steed. Making good speed through the
water, but we have experienced in the last twenty-four hours an adverse
current of about 1 mile per hour, setting W. N. W. Nothing had been
seen to-day. Water green, indicating soundings. We are about 90-
miles from the coast of Guiana. Pink and lilac clouds about sunset.
We are fast sinking the North Star, and this evening we had a view of
the Southern Cross. Latitude, 70 19; longitude, 530 31.
	Friday, August 9.Cloudy, with light breezes from the southeast..
No meridian observation for latitude to-day, though a sight near noon
shows us to have experienced the eastward current again. We have
experienced a drift of about 20 miles to the N. N. W. A W. This is a
serious drawback to our making our run to Maranham. The engineer-
has overestimated his supply of coal, and it now turns out that we had
but eight (lays instead of nine days fuel when we left Trinidad. Ii
very much fear we shall fall short, and be obliged to make some port
under our lee nuder sail. Evening clear, with light breezes from about
S. by W. Latitude observations near noon, 60 01; longitude, 500 48.
	Saturday, August 10.Clear, with a deep blue sea and a fresh S. E.
trade wind in latitude 50 N., and what makes our position worse with
reference to making our run, we have had the extraordinary current of
50 miles in twenty-four hours (!) setting nearly due north, a speed equal
to that of the Gulf Stream in its narrowest part. But patience and
resignation. These are two qualities which every seaman should cul-
tivate, as he has so frequent opportunities for their exercise. We hav&#38; 
now just three days of fuel on board, and we require to make 550 miles,
current included, to reach Maranham. Can not do it. Latitude, 40
29; longitude, 480 25.
	Sunday, August 11.Morning windy, with a head sea. We hav&#38; 
been laboring and plunging through it all night, with little hope of
making much headway, but continuing on in the expectation that pos-
sibly the current might change or the wind abate. Vain hope; neither
the one thing nor the other took place! The genius of the east wind
maintained his sway even against the power of steam, and drove us
back from an invasion of his dominion from so unlooked-for a quarter.
At meridian we observed in latitude 2~ 38, which gave us longitude
470 48, and this settled the question of the voyage to Maranham, or
even to Para. We had experienced 60 miles current N. W. in one day,
and had made good a distance of 125 miles only. We had still 200
miles to run to the point at which the pilot is taken for Para, and we
had but thirty hours of coal, so the game was up. Most unwillingly I
ordered the fires to be put out and the ship put under sail and steered
N. W., intending to make some one of the ports of Guiana under our

Page 702

702 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

lee, in the hope of finding coal. Afternoon, sailing along I)leasan tly
under all the starboard studding sails. Evening delightfully clear auid
pleasant, and the wind and the sea not at all in a hurry! At 11 a. m.
mustered the crew and caused the clerk to read the third general order
on the subject of a court-martial. Man will offend and must be pun-
ished.
	Monday, August 12.Weather clear; rolling along to the northward
and westward, with a light breeze from E. ~S. E. and a lazy swell. All
the studding sails set and speed between 3 and 4 knots. sailing
pleasant enough but for the disappointment of our hopes in not being
able to gain a port farther to the eastWard. Running in to make the
land about Cape Orange with a view to go into Cayenne. Latitude, 40
01 N.; longitude, 490 37 W.
	Tuesday.Morning clear, but it clouded about 9 a. m. and remained
so all day. Dull leaden clouds with the wind somewhat variable, haul-
ing at one time to N. by W. in a squall and driving us 6 knots. in
light winds our propeller does not revolve, and the ship is wonderfully
sluggish. The winds being light the current, running to the nerth~
ward at the rate of 2~ knots per hour, has drifted us so far northwTard,
although we have been steering west and W. S. W. and once S. XV. by
S., that I fear we shall be drifted by the port of Cayenne altogether.
The water has been muddy green all day, but we did not get soundings
with 40 fathoms of line until 8 p. m. Passed frequent tide rips, mdi-
eating the presence of currents, and at 5:30 p. in. descried two sail
bearing westward from us. We could not make them out. Indeed,
they were of but little interest to us in our crippled condition for the
want of coal, as we could not chase. Evening clear but rather hazy,
with the wind N. N. E. and very light. Latitude by computation, the
sun being obscured just at noon, 40 56; longitude, 500 55.
	Wednesday, August 14.Morning beautiful, with fleecy trade clouds,
promising a fine breeze, but the breeze never came; the clouds passed
on sluggishly and changed their forms and positions, but no wind. A
livelong, calm day, with nothing but cats paws and currents, the lat-
ter setting about W. N. W. We have les~ened our soundings some-
what,being in 23 fathoms at 4 p. m. The silver mountains in sight,
bearing S. W. ~ S. Saw a sail during the morning afar off under the
land, but could not make her out. Gained a little on the northerly
current to-day. Latitude, 4049/ N.; longitude, 510 19. Cayenne bear-
ing about west, distant 55 miles.
	Thursday, August 15.During the past night made the Great Con-
stable, a small island off the coast some 40 miles to the eastward of Cay-
enne. Anchored at midnight in 14k fathoms water, the island bearing
west, distant about 6 miles. At daylight this morning, after waiting
for the passage of a rain squall, we got underway and stood outside of
the Constable to avoid a shoal some 4 miles to the N. N. W. In the
afternoon the breeze freshened finely, and we ran up to the Remire Islets,
where we took on board a pilot from a French lugger that was waiting
for us, and ran in and anchored to the northward of the Child [Enfant
Perdu] in 3~ fathoms. We have thus finely accomplished what 1
feared two days ago the currents and the calms would render ilupossi-
ble. The approach to Cayenne is pretty, the island being picturesque.
The batteries at the town fired an evening salute as we came to anchor,
in honor of the birth of Napoleon, this being the 15th day of August.
	Friday, August 16.Morning clear, with passing trade clouds and a
fresh wind from E. S. E., which has continued all the past night. At
S a. m. dispatched the junior lieutenant and the paymaster to pay m

Page 703

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	703

respects to the governor, and ascertain whether I could be supplied
with coal. These officers having proceeded to the town in a boat, were
not permitted to land for want, as was alleged, of a bill of health certi-
fied from our last port, the governor rejecting as insufficient the cer-
tificate signed by surgeou and countersigned by myself, of the perfect
state of health of the crew. The officers were informed that we might
communicate with the town if we would undergo a quarantine of five
days, but as they were also informed (by the captain of the port) that
there was no coal to be had, the government yards not containing a
sufficient supply for the steamers on the station, which were, on the
contrary, awaiting the arrival of seven coal-laden ships from France, I
did not think it worth while to pay the penalty of five days to visit the
penal settlement of Cayenne, as I had no hobby on prisoners and
prisons. In this matter of the coal there was a little discrepancy
withal between the pilot and the officials, as the latter had told us there
was plenty of coal on hand and of the best quality at two or three
places in the colony. Coupling this with the fact that there was a Yan-
kee consul at hand (the dealer in beef of the station) and two or three
Yankee skippers, it may be just possible that the Frenchman lied
politely when he said there was coal in the dockyard. The boat ou her
return to the ship had a hard pull against the wind and current. In
one hour after her return we were nuder way. About 6 p. m. passed
Saint (three islands), a French military station. Running along the
coast toward Surinam in 9 and 10 fathoms water. Cayenne and
health laws were certainly a novelty! The coolie trade flourishes here,
a ship having arrived a few days before ns with 500 on board. Humane
Louis Napoleon! to substitute the white slave for the black!
	Saturday, August 17.Morning clear, with a fresh breeze [from] the
southward and eastward. Running along the coast in 10 fathoms
water, the soundings very regular. Observed in latitude 50 56.
Passed the mouth of the Maroni at about noon, and at 4 p. m. ran
across a sand bank in very muddy water some 15 miles to the north-
ward and eastward of the entrance; having only 3 fathoms, hauled out
N. N. W. until we deepened into 5 fathoms, which we did pretty soon,
when we hauled in W. S. W. for the coast, carrying in 5 fathoms within
7 or 8 miles. At 9 p. m. anchored in 5 fathoms water about 7 miles
from the land.
	Sunday, August 18.Weather clear, with a light breeze from the
eastward, which freshened as the day advanced, anti gave us a fresh
breeze toward nightfall. After passing Port Orange we ran over
another 3-fathom bank, the water deepening beyond, enabling us to
liead in toward the coast as we approached Brain Point, off which we
anchored (near the buoy on the bar) at 5:20 p. m. in 4 fathoms. Mus-
tered the crew and read the articles of war. I had much perplexity in
finding the mouth of the Surinam, such is the sameness of the coast.
At 6 p. m. a steamer was descried in the west, steering for the harbor.
Night setting in soon afterwards, we could not n~ake her out. Went to
quarters ~nd cleared for action. Got up the smokestack and lighted
the fires and made preparations for slipping the chain. At about 10:30
the stranger came up and anchored outside of us at the distance of
about 4 miles. I concluded from the movement that she must be an
enemy, as probably a mail steamer would have run the bar without
waiting for daylight. I therefore directed all hands to be called at
4:30 a. in., and all preparations renewed for battle, with steam up, etc.
	Monday, August 19.Day broke clear, had all hands at quarters at
5:30 a. in., daylight. The strange steamer got up steam anal ran u

Page 704

704 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

toward us. Got our auchor aud stood down for her. Hoisted the
French colors. Soon afterwards the stranger hoisted French colors
also. Hauled down the French colors and hoisted our own, and con-
tinued our course toward the stranger, and having come within speak-
ing distance we hailed. A colloquy ensued, each of us asking the other
if he had a pilot. The Frenchman ran in for the light vessel and we
followed him. At the light vessel the Frenchman took a pilot. Soon
after passing the light vessel we anchored to wait for the tide. At
meridian got underway and proceeded up the river. The muddy
waters of this stream and the low banks reminded us of the Mississippi.
A dense, rich foliage covered the banks on either side and we passed
several sugar estates with their tall chimneys and factories, and saw
others in the distance, giving evidence of more prosperity in this slave
state than we had seen either in Trinidad or Cayenne. Nothing can
exceed the fertility of the soil, laden with rich crops of the sugar cane,
beautified and densified with the charming tropical trees and plants,
among which were the stately and graceful palm, the banana, the mango,
etc. The negro population appeared well clothed and well fed, but the
slave tenure is very precarious here, and the fear of their losing it has
a sensible effect upon the prosperity of the colony. Sent a lieutenant
to call on the governor soon after anchoring and received a visit from
the French captain and from the senior Dutch ship. Some dealers in
coal also came on board of us.
	Tuesday, August 20.Weather clear and temperature, out of the sun,
quite cool and pleasant. Called on the governor and had an agreeable
interview with him. Returned the calls also of the Dutch and French
commanders. Received the visits of two Dutch commanders and sev-
eral citizens. Made arrangements for receiving a supply of coal. The
French steamer of war Abeille arrived from Cayenne. Sent an officer
on board of her. Her commander called a few hours after.
	Wednesday, August 21.Clear; temperature, pleasant. Returned the
visit of the commander of the Abeille. He is a clever man, with pro-
slavery sympathies, and seemed to understand well the cause of our
quarrel with the North, but is a Frenchman all over and seemed to
think we had not treated the pavilion Pran~mais with due respect in run-
fling down upon the Vulture with battery ready and men at quarters..
I told him that both interest and inclination prompted us to conciliate
the good will of the grand nation, and that we had only exercised one
of the usual rights oC war, both in using his flag and running down
upon his ship at quarters.
	Thursday, August 22.Clear and pleasant. Landed with Mr. Smith
and my cockswain and took a walk, stopping at the hotel and reading
such of the Yankee newspapers as I could find. The privateer Sumter
made some figure in these lying sheets. Have received in the last two
days just 18 tons of coal. The Yankee consul here is named Sawyer.
He is a Connecticut man married to a dark mulatto who is the owner
of slaves. He has exerted himself greatly to prevent our receiving
coal. A worthy representative of Yankeedom and negropimilism. He
has also tampered with the pilot, and otherwise shown himself worthy
of himself and his cause.
	Eriday, August 23.Weather clear; squally, with some rain at night.
Our coal comes off very slowly, a little work going a great way with the
negroes here. The French steamer of war Vulture went to sea to-day.
	Saturday, August 24.Clear and pleasant; some passing clouds and
in the evening slight squalls and rain. The Dutch steamer with the mail
arrived to-day from Demerara. We were looking anxiously for new

Page 705

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.
705
from home, as at last accounts (July 20, from New York) a battle near
Manassas Junction seemed imminent. iDemerara papers to the 19th
instant contain nothing except that some skirmishing had commenced
between the two armies. The French steamer of war Abeille went to
sea.
	Sunday, August 25.Cloudy in the morning. Went on shore to
church at half past 8. The good old mother has her churches and cler.
gymen, even in this remote Dutch colony. It is estimated that there [are]
10,000 Catholics in the colony. The church was a neat, well-arranged
building, the congregation full and mixed, the colored names greatly
preponderating. The sermon was fluent but in Dutch, and therefore
sealed to me, but the Latin mass and the ceremonialthe same all over
the worldimpressed me strongly and touched many cords of remi-
niscence. The people were devout. A detachment of the Government
troops was present. A number received the communion. Mustered
the crew at 11, and afterwards performed the agreeable duty of releas-
ing a couple of prisoners; to release is always more pleasant than to
confine. Some Dutch lieutenants visited the ship. On this day, in the
quiet of the Sabbath sunlight, how strongly the thoughts revert to
country, home, family, and friends, from all of whom. alas, we are sep.
arated under such painful circumstances.
	We learn by late papers from Barbados that the U. S. S. Keystone
State was in that island on the 21st of July, in search of us. She has
not yet found us. There was quite a flutter in the dovecote at Key
West, too, on the 8th of July, when the news of our arrival at Cien.
fuegos reached them. There was prompt coaling and steaming up on
board the Niagara and Crusader, which vessels supposed they might
overtake us at Cienfuegos or Trinidad, and blockade us anew only in
her Majestys dominions. Soft, Mr. Shufeldt, and soft, Captain illcKean
we had anticipated all this display of black Republican zeal. We
 knew that the Yankee man at Cienfuegos would telegraph the Yankee
man at Havana, and that the latter would send a fishing smack to Key
West, and we knew that the enemy had ships at that point. SoCt, Mr.
Shufeldt. A long and steady rain during the night.
	Monday, August 26.Morning cloudy, clearing off about 9 oclock.
Coaling and receiving wood and water. Little breeze and warm. The
governor sends me an apology by the paymaster for not being able
to show me some official civility and hopes that I will return at some
future period under different circumstances. The dunce! His Govern.
ment recognizes me a belligerent, and this entitles me to all the, atten-
tion he could show the other party in the war.
	Tuesday, August 27.Morning cloudy, clearing as the day advanced.
Got sights for my chronometers, which gave me satisfactory results.
Still coaling and watering. We hear a report that there are two ships
of war off the entrance, keeping themselves out of sight, hoping to
waylay us. A fisherman is said to have supplied one of them with fish.
He also reports them to have sent in for water to one of the seacoast
plantations. We shall be ready for sea in a couple of days, when we
will verify this report. The codfish and cheese community, with the
Yankee consul who has the negro wife at their head, has been iu a
great stew ever since we have been here, endeavoring to frustrate our
coaling by carrying on the big business of buying off lighters, etc.
The nightly gatherings of skippers and small shopkeepers must
keep the little town of Paramaribo in an unwonted state of excite.
ment. The goveriior sends me to-day a clean bill of health by way
of a sort of leave-taking. Poor man, he would no doubt be glad to
123A4

Page 706

706 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

have me go, that he may get rid of the awful responsibility reposed
upon him and his company of soldiers by my presence here. Evening
breezeless and warm, inviting those pestiferous little insects, the mos-
quitoes, to board us. We have rumors of a battle having been fought
at Manassas (in a private letter from iDemerara) and of oar having
driven back the Northern hordes. As this news comes through the
enemys own channels, he must be badly beaten.
	Wednesday, August 28.Bright, elastic morning, with a gentle breeze
from the S. E. Suspended the second lieutenant from duty for remain-
ing out of the ship during his watch without leave and sending off a
midshipman to keep it, in violation of the general orders of the ship,
and justifying the act when called on in my cabin for an explanation.
Coaling and watering. To-day the story of two men-of-war being off
the bar, said to have been brought by a fisherman, is discredited. It
dwindles down to one merchant ship having been seen. As no sail has
been signaled it is probably the story of the three white crows. At
all events we are nearly ready for sea and shall try to get out to-mor-
row. In the afternoon I took a walk on shore, strolling along the
beautiful avenue leading from the Government house northward. It is
a fine beaten track lined with cottages on either side, many in a very
dilapidated condition. Nature seemed unwilling to admit of even the
intrusion of so much cleared space as was necessary for the road, and
the rich, dark soil on either hand pushed its magnificent forest trees
and undergrowth in a wilderness of green to the very margin of the
road, and little or no cultivated land enclosed, and this wilderness
seemed to be alive with birds and insects; among the former the parrot
seemed to be the most numerous and most lively, with its cheerful
note. Evening, black clouds, threatening rain. Everybody very polite,
but niggerdom will not work sua sponte.
	Thursday, August 29.Morning clear, afternoon cloudy, wan the
wind from the north. Having at length, after a delay of ten days, com-
pleted coaling and watering ship, I sent for the pilot at 9 a. m. to take
us to sea. He came on board, and having decided that the tide would
not be suitable until after nightfall I directed him to come on board
at a suitable time in the morning. The coal merchant, who is an intel-
ligent mulatto, is a large owner of slaves, and gave me a good deal of
information as to planting, etc., in the colony. Sugar and cocoa are
the chief products. Coffee is not produced, and cotton, though some
attempts to raise it are made, is a failure. The mother country, like a
sensible stepdame, makes the colony pay its own expenses through a
system of taxes on imports and exports and a direct tax upon property.
But a small portion of the lands (on the borders of the rivers) are
brought into cultivation, owing to the want of labor. All classes are
being mixed here, and all these Guianas, in course of time, will follow
the fate of the West Indies and be owned and governed by a mixed
race of whites and blacks.
	Friday, August 30.Weather fi~ie, with a light breeze from the
southward and eastward. Lighted the fires and raised steam for the
purpose of running out, but the cabin and wardroom stewards having
failed to come on board at the usnal hour an officer was sent to hunt
them up. Upon the return of this officer it became manifest that both
these men had deserted. I immediately dispatched a letter to the gov-
ernor, acquainting him with the fact and asking his interference to
nave them apprehended, and sent the bearer of the letter also to the
chief of police, informing that officer that a reward of 50 guilders
each would be paid for their apprehension. Promises were made b

Page 707

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	707

both that every exertion should be made. Ordered the first lieutenant
to permit the steam to go down to await the result of the search.
Pilot on board. Having waited until 2 p. m. J got underway and we
steamed down to the mouth of the river, where we came to. I did this
in hope that my two deserters, thinking I had gone to sea, would come
out of their hiding places, when the police would seize them. About
11 p. in., at half flood, I dispatched a boat to town with a midshipman
and the pilot to learn whether the fugitives had been apprehended.
The boat returned at 8 next morning with the report from the commis-
sioner of police that the deserters had been traced to the ~ as
he expressed it, and that for the present there was but little hope of
their capture. Visited in the evening a sugar estate.
	AS~aturday, August 31.After the return of our boat, as narrated
above, we got up steam and ran out to sea, crossing the bar at merid-
ian. Weather fine, with the breeze pretty fresh from the N. E.
Having run off the coast some 7 or 8 miles north, as a blind, at 1 p. in.
hauled up E. ~ S., with the intention of running along on soundings to
avoid the current. In good trim and making fair speed.
	* *	*	* *	* *

	AS~unday, &#38; ptember 1.Cloudy; no meridian observation. Experi-
enced no easterly current. Night, weather thick, with drizzling rain.
Calm during the day, with a light breeze from the eastward at night-
fall.
	Monday, &#38; jpternber 2.Morning bright, with a fine, elastic breeze
from the eastward. Some sea on, and we are rolling over the some-
what turbid, green waters, indicating soundings near Cape Orange.
Light breezes all day and strong tide rips. Current 1~ miles per hour
to the northward. Nothing seen. Latitude, 40 50; longitude, 50~ 20.
	Tuesday, &#38; jptember 3.Weather fine, sea blue, breeze fresh from
about E. by S. Nothing seen. Exercised the crew at general quar-
ters. Latitude, 30 05- longitude, 48~ 44. We are to-day, at noon,
within some 45 miles of the place from which we bore up on the 11th
of August for want of coal, so that it has only cost us three days and a
half or about 50 tons of coal, to regain our position. Unfortunately,
however, we have lost what is much more valuable, twenty-three days.
These, however, can not be said to have been wholly lost, as the dis-
play of our flag in Cayenne and Surinain has had an excellent effect.
	Wednesday, &#38; ptember 4.Weather clear, with a fresh trade from
about E. by S. Most of the time we have carried fore and aft sails and
have made a fine run in the last twenty-four hours, 175 miles, expe-
riencing no current. We have now passed the months of the Amazon
and are in about 25 fathoms of water on the Brazil side of the river.
Eortunafavet diligentibus. At 1:20 p. m. discovered a sail a point on
the weather bow, which soon passed out of sight about a point on the
lee bow; could not make her out, but supposed her to be a brig. It
is doubtful whether we could have overhauled her before night in the
stiff trade wind that was blowing. Time and coal being important to
us, we did not chase. Crossed the equator at 7:30 p. in. in longitude
460 40, and sounded in 20 fathoms of water. Latitude at noon, 44 N.;
longitude, 470 12.
	Thursday, &#38; ptember 5.Wind fresh from the E. S. E. Doubled
Cape Gurupi during the early morning and sounded at meridian in 8
fathoms of water with no land in sight. Hauled up more to the east-
ward. At 3:30 p. in. made the island of San Joao on the starboard bow.
Hauled in with this island and doubled its northeastern end in 6 and 7
-fathoms water and shaped the course S. E. by S., which carried us int

Page 708

708 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISER8CONFEDERATE~

some very broken ground, the soundings varying in a few casts from 7
to 4 fathoms. Hauled her out more to the eastward until we struck 8
fathoms, when we ran along in very equal soundings until we made
the light at Mount Itacolomi, bearing S. by W. ~ W. Anchored in
half an hour afterwards in 6~ fathoms. Latitude, 10 03 5.; longi-
tude, 440 48.
	Friday, September 6.Morning thick with gathering clouds and wind
increasing to half a gale by 9 a. m. At 7 a. m. hove up and in doing so
broke our anchor in the shank near the ring, it having caught doubt-
less in the rocky bottom. At the fracture the metal was seen to have
been very indifferent. Ran in toward the light, and with much anx-
iety ran into the bay (no pilot being in sight), rounded safely the shoals
off Mount Itacolorni and passed the Meio Shoal, when to our great
astonishment we suddenly ran upon a sand bank having two fathoms
of water upon it. It was a mere ridge, and fortunately we hung upon
it only about half [a] minute, knocking off our false keel, but doing no
other injury that we could perceive. The tide afterwards fell 5 feet in
an hour and a half. How lucky, therefore, that we did not strike an
hour and a half later. We anchored after having again found the
soundings (so irregular as to show us that we had gotten upon very
foul ground) to the westward where the chart showed clean ground and
bold water, and seeing some fishing boats on the shore adjacent we
sent a boat and picked up a fisherman who took us up to the town of
Maranham, where we anchored about 5 p. m. A Brazilian lieutenant
of the navy, who visited us soon after on the part of the admiral,
congratulated me upon my fortunate escape, both on the outer coast
and in running the harbor, as the Brazilian ships of war never thought
of going northward without a coast pilot.
	Saturday, September 7.Wind blowing a gale. This is the Brazilian
Independence Day and all the men-of-war and some of the merchant
ships are gaily decorated with flags, and the former have fired salutes.
As our young nation has not yet been recognized we have taken no
part in these proceedings.
	Sunday, September 8.Blowing fresh from the eastward. Visited the
shore, but too late for mass. Dined with Mr. Olivier, a native of Louis-
iana settled here. Grand ball at the palace this evening; not invited,
the stupid authorities, though individually well inclined, seeming fear-
ful of committing themselves in some way. Anniversary of Molino del
Hey.
	Monday, September 9.Fresh breeze, with clear weather. Feeling
the necessity of some change I took up my quarters this morning on
shore, at the Hotel Porto, where I am very comfortable. During the
morning I called to see the president of the department, but he excused
himself on account of indisposition and appointed 12 oclock to-morrow
for an interview. Captain Pinto, of the Brazilian navy, the captain of
the port, and the chief of police, the presidents confidential friend and
adviser, called to see me and read to me a protest which the U. S.
consul had made to the Government against my being permitted to
receive coal and indeed requiring the Government to cause me to
depart, alleging that I had not been permitted to enter the ports of
any of the European powers. I contradicted the false statements of
this paper, and it was agreed that in the interview which I was to hold
with the president to.morrow we would discuss this and other matters.
	Tuesday, September 10.Fresh trades, with occasional clouds. Called
upon the president at 12, and was admitted to an interview, the chief
of police and Captain Pinto being present. I exhibited to the pres

Page 709

OPERATIONS OF THE CRtTISERS.CONFEDERATE.
709
dent my commission, and read to him a portion of my instructions, to
show him that it was the desire of the Confederate States to cultivate
friendly relations with other powers, and to pay particular respect to
neutral property and rights, and the better to satisfy him that he might
supply me with coal without a departure from neutrality, and to con-
tradict the false statements of the U. S. consul, I exhibited to him a
newspaper from Trinidad setting forth the fact that the question of the
propriety of supplying me with coal in that island had been formally sub-
mitted to the law officers of the Crown and decided in myfavor, etc. The
president then announced to me that I might purchase whatever sup-
plies I wanted, coal included, but munitions of war excepted. I then
stated to him that this war was in fact a war as mach in behalf of
Brazil as of ourselves that we were fighting the first battle in favor
of slavery, and that if we were beateii iu the contest, Brazil would be
the next one to be assailed by Yankee and English propagandists.
These remarks were favorably received, the three gentlemen evidently
sympathizing with us.
	Wednesday, September 11.Fresh wind and cloudy. Painting ship
and making preparations for the reception of coal. We are looking
anxiously for the arrival of the Rio mail steamer, as we have a report
brought by a Portuguese vessel from Pernambuco that a great battle
had been fought, that we have beaten the enemy, and that we have
marched up[onj Washington. God grant that our just cause may thus
have triumphed. The whole town is agog discussing our affairs. Dif-
ferent parties take different views of them, the opposition party in the
legislature, which is in session, being disposed to censure the Govern-
ment for its reception of us.
	Thursday, September 12.Clear, with passing clouds; trade wind
fresh as usual at this season of the year; indeed, these winds will con-
tinue to increase in force until December, ~~hen they will gradually
give place to the rains. It has been a favorite project of mine from the
commencement of the cruise to run off Cape St. Roque and there way-
lay the commerce of the enemy in its transit both ways, but the strong
gales and strong current which now prevail will interfere for the pres-
ent with my plan, and I must postpone it for awhile. If the war con-
tinues I shall hope to put it in execution at the proper time. It was at one
time reported to-day that there were two United States vessels of war
awaiting us outside off Santa Anna [Brazil], but the report proved to
be the offi~pring of the excit&#38; ~d imaginations of the townspeople. Had
a conversation this evening with Sefior Bodrigues, an intelligent law-
yer and the speaker of the deputies, on the subject of the war. I found
him pretty well informed, considering that he had received his infor-
mation through the polluted channels of the Northern newspapers. He
seemed to think that we had been precipitate in breaking our connec-
tion with the North, but I told him we had been the most patient, long
suffering people in the world, and had waited till the last moment pos-
sible in hopes that the fanaticism which swayed the North would pass
away, and that the responsibility of breaking up the once great Gov-
ernment of the North rested entirely upon the propagandists of that
section. TWO coal lighters alongside.
	Friday, September 13.Cloudy, with the wind very fresh from the east-
ward. The town is still busy discussing onr affairs. A deputy asked
me seriously yesterday if the president had not ordered me to haul my
flag down as not being recognized. He said that the assembly had
called upon him for an explanation of the course he had adopted
toward us, but that he had declined to respond. It is reported, too

Page 710

710 OPERATIONS OF THE QRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

that there are two ships of war awaiting us outside, near the Santa
Anna light.
	Saturday, September 14.Cloudy, with fresh trades. Having finished
coaling and receiving our other supplies, we are engaged to-day in pay-
ing off our bills. I have been enabled to negotiate a draft for $2,000
upon the Secretary of the Navy, Mr. J. Wetson, one of our fellow coun-
trymen, temporarily here, having been patriotic enough to advance me
this sum on the faith of his Government. He not only thus aided us,
bat was very anxious to come ou board in person, if [he] could have
wound up his business in time. Jn the evening at 7 p. m. I removed on
board from the Hotel Porto, preparatory to going to sea tomorrow.
	Sunday, September 15.Cloudy, with very fresh trades. Received a
pilot on board at 9 a. m. and gave orders to get up steam. At 11 a. in.
mustere(1 the crew and read the articles of war. At 12 got underway
and stood out of the harbor. Mr. Wetson accompanied us and returned
with the pilot. At 3:30 p. m. discharged the pilot, Mount Itacolomi
bearing W. N. W. Steered N. N. E. until this mount bore W., when
we steered N. E., etc.
	Monday, September 16.Fresh breeze from the N. E. all the past
night and early this morning, and cloudy. At 6 a. m. kept away N. and
afterward N. by E4 E., with fore-and-aft sails set. In lieu of my St.
Roque cruise for the present I am bound for the crossing line of the
calm belt in the Northern Hemisphere, for homeward-bound California
and Brazilian vessels, etc. Nothing in sight. Latitude, 17 5.; longi-
tude, 420 59 W.
	Tuesday, September 17.Deep blue sea, with a transparent atmos-
phere, trade clouds, and a fresh breeze from the S. E. At 11:30 let the
steam go down, and uncoupled the propeller and put the ship under
sail. Exercised the crew at general quarters. Not quite up yet with
our cruising ground. Latitude, 2~ 19 N.; longitude, 41~ 29 W.
	Wednesday, September 18.Clear and cloudy by turns, with half a
gale of wind from the S. E. and an ugly sea thumping us under the
counter and causing usto roll heavily. We are on our cruising ground,
but have seen nothing. Bore up in the afternoon and ran north to
reach the calm belt. Latitude, 30 38; longitude, 400 57.
	Thursday, September 19.Sea of indigo blue, and a whole topsail
breeze from the S E. with a heavy sea, causing us to roll and tumble
about to our great discomfort, I was obliged evemi to betake myself
from my berth to my hammock. Hove to at 8 a. in., bat filled away
again at 9. Experienced a current of 20 miles setting S. E. in the teeth
of the wind and heavy sea. Nothing in sight; weather not very clear.
Latitude, 40 33; longitude, 400 41. Steering N. XV. and N. W. by W.
under topsails.
	Friday, September 20.Clear weather, with fresh gales from the S. E.
and a heavy sea. At 1 p. m: uncoupled the propeller and made all sail
to overcome the southeasterly current which we had experienced dur-
ing the previous twenty-four hours; a current of about 40 miles S. E.
Ship rolling and tumbling about to our great discomfort. Latitude,
40 46; hon gitude, 41g.
	Saturday, September 21.Weather clear and pleasantly cool, with
fresh breezes from the S E. and a heavy sea. Current last twenty-
four hours S. E. 44 miles. We have been three days trying to get to
the westward, making but a snails pace every day, owing to this cnr-
rent. INothing in sight, though we are now near the track of home-
ward ships from the Pacific and the coast of Brazil. Lucky ships,
unlucky Sumter! Latitude, 5012; longitude, 41~ 59. But patience

Page 711

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.
711

	AS1unday, AS~eptember 22.Weather clear and fine, with moderate breezes
from the S. E. Steering to the westward to approach more nearly the
line of crossing along which we design to cruise, but we find it a diffi~
cult task to make westing against the strong easterly current that has
beset 115 for the last four days. To-day its set was E. by S .~ S., audit
drifted us in twenty-four hours 55 miles. We have not seen a sail
since leaving Maranhari,, a week to-day. Dull cruising. At 11 mus-
te~ed and inspected the crew and ship. Latitude, 50 37 N.; longitude,
490 12 W.

	Monday, September 23.Clear, with passing clouds; wind light, from
the S. E., veerirg and hauling 2 or 3 points. We have experienced
in the last three days a remarkable succession of tide rips, coming
on every twelve hours and about one hour before the passage of the
moon over the meridian. We have observed five of these rips, and with
such regularity that we attribute them to the lunar influence attract-
ing the waters in an opposite direction from the prevailing current,
which is east, at the rate of some 2 miles per hour. We had a small
gull to fly on board of us to-day, at the distance of 500 miles from the
nearest land. The tide rips caine up from the south and traveled
north, approaching first with a heavy swell, which caused us, being
broadside on, to roll so violently that we kept the ship off her course
from 2 to 3 points to bring the roller more on the quarter. These
rollers would be followed by a confused, tumultuous sea, foaming and
fretting in every direction as if we were among breakers. We were, in
fact, among breakers, but fortunately with no bottom near. No boat
could have lived in such a caldron as was produced by this meeting
of the waters. They generally passed us in about three-quarters of an
hour, when everything would become comparatively smooth again. No
observation to-day for latitude, but by computation we are in latitude
50 25, and longitude, chronometer, 420 19, current E. by S.58 miles.
So curious were the phenomena of the rips that the officers and men
came on deck upon their approach to witness them. No sail in sight.
	Tuesday, September 24.Mornino-	, nd light from
the S. S. W. and S. W.; weather ~ cloudy, with rain- wi
clearing partially about noon. Slowly
and tediously plodding our way to the westward. Tide rips not so
heavy this morning, and we have experienced less current, it being east
30 miles. This is our ninth day out, and we have not sighted a sail in
all that time. Latitude, 50 33 N.; longitude, 420 27 W. We have been
for the last three days within 15 or 20 miles of the direct line between
St. Roque and New York, but nothing has passed. Tide rips at night.
fall.
	Wednesday, September 25.Cloudy, with a moderate breeze from the
S. W., freshening as the day advanced. At 6 a. in. the welcome cry of
Sail, ho! was heard from the masthead. The sail, some 15 miles dis-
tant, bore N. E. by E. Ordered steam got up and at 6:30 steered up for
the stranger. At 9 came near enough to show him the United States
colors, soon after which he himself showed similar colors. Hailed him
and found him to be the brigantine Jos. Park, of Boston, six days out
from Pernambuco, in ballast. Sent a boat on board and captured hhn,
hauling down the United States colors and hoisting our own as soon as
our officers got on board. The prize had a crew of 7 persons and
1 passenger. Brought them all on board and put Lieutenant Evans on
board the prize, with a midshipman and five men, with orders to cruise
in company as a scout ship for the discovery of passing sails. At 1 p.
ut, having let the steam go down, put the ship under sail again, with
her head to the westward, the Park taking a station to the westwar

Page 712

712 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

and to windward of us. At nightfall the scout ship drew in under our
guns and followed our light at the peak during the night. Latitude,
6~ 20 N.; longitude, 42~ 27 W.
	Thursday, &#38; ptember 26.Morning fine and clear, with a light breeze
from the S. W. The Park again assumed her station some 9 or 10
miles to the westward of us. Exercised the crew at quarters. The
tide rips still continue, but not so violent. Water green, as if we were
on soundings. Afternoon calm. The gratifying news of our troops
having obtained a great victory near Manassas Junction, the rumor of
which we had heard in Maranham, is at length confirmed by Northern
newspapers found on board the Prize. The Yankees must have been
terribly thrashed, since they admit themselves that they were badly
beaten. I learn also through the medium of one of the intercepted
letters that we have beaten the enemy, too, in Missouri and killed Gen-
eral Lyon, one of the suddeu notorieties of the revolution. This news
comes per steamer via Portugal. I have been looking over the log of
the prizea very elegant specimen of English literature, by the way
and was amused at finding the following expression entered therein on
the day after she sailed from Boston for Pernambuco: We have a tight,
fastvessel, and sowe dont care for JelL Davis. Myunfortunate prisoner
hallooed before he got out of the woods. The scout ship has drawn
in without having seen anything during the day. Learn from an inter-
cepted letter of the defeat and death of General Lyon.
	Friday, &#38; pternber 27.A beautiful, clear morning, with a light breeze
from the eastward after a calm night. Called in the scout ship by sig-
nal to get a piece of timber from on board of her with which to make a
quoin for the pivot gun. Latitude, 6~ 24 N.; longitude, 430 10 W.
	Saturday, September 28.Morning fine, with a light breeze from the
N.E. Evening cloudy, with squally appearances, and wind from the
S.W. Called the prize brig within hail and got on board from her her
water and provisions, a few sails, spars, etc. Withdrew the prize crew
and practiced firing at her as a target at the distance of about three-
quarters of a mile. At nightfall set her on fire, and thus olkred another
sacrifice to the god of war. Latitude, 6~ 10; longitude, 440 20.
	Sunday, September 29.Beautiful, clear morning, with a gentlebreeze
from the S. E., and a smooth sea. Latitude, 6055; longitude, 450 08.
Evening set in squally and rainy. Running along to the N. W. under
the topsails.
	Monday, September 30.Commences with cloudy weather and rain
squalls. Latitude, 70 33; longitude, 450 28. We are again getting
tired of dull work, having seen nothing since our capture of the 25th
instant. At 8 p. m. a little excitement was produced by several per-
sons at once singing out, Light, ho! Several were sure that they saw a
red light very distinctly, and as this could be none other than a steamers
light (it being very calm) the engineer was ordered to fire up and all
hands were called, the lights screened, and the battery cleared. After
observing the horizon, however, for some time, it became manifest that
it was only a meteor or a setting star on a hazy horizon that had been
seen. The hammocks were again piped down and the fires banked.
	Tuesday, October 1.Cloudy and calm in forenoon. Weather very
warm and rolling about uncomfortably, with nothing in sight. Exer-
cised the crew at general quarters. Afternoon a settled rain; sailors
up to their eyes in fresh water and soap, so few opportunities for wash-
ing have we had. Weather continued thick and rainy through the
night. Latitude, 70 39; longitude, 450 55
	Wedne8day, October 2.Early morning partially cloudy, clearing awa

Page 713

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	713

beautifully toward noon, with a pleasant breeze from the N.W., remind-
ing us of our Gulf of Mexico weather at this season of the year. Lati-
tude, 80 19; longitude, 460 23. Evening and night calm: ship rolling
lazily to some sea.
	Thursday, October 3.A charming day, with a light bracing breeze
from the S. E. Although we have a bright sun and a distant horizon,
there is nothing in sight. Rolling along to the N.W. under topsails.
Latitude, 8~ 30; longitude, 46~ 21.
	Frida~j, October 4.Weather clear and beautiful, with trade clouds,
a light breeze from the eastward, and a smooth, undulating sea. Noth-
ing in sight. This is somewhat singular, as we are near the usual route
for vessels between St. Roque and New York, and on the supposition
that they would pass within 75 miles on one side or the other of this
line, which is a large allowance, and that our circle of vision from the
masthead has a radius of 15 miles, we should see every fifth that passes,
and yet we have seen but one in seventeen days. This want of success
draws largely upon the Christian virtue of patience, and calls for another
virtue, perseverance. Latitude, 8~55; longitude, 46~ 58. Steeredwest
and south during the night. We have undoubtedly struck the N. E.
trades to-day.
	Saturday, October 5.Morning beautiful and clear, with fresh breezes
from about E. N. E. At 10, Sail, ho!~~ was cried from aloft in a long
cadence, as if the lookout would mark the occurrence, now become so
unfrequent, by a note of admiration. The sail bore dead to wind-
ward of us and was a great way off, probably some 17 or 18 miles.
I immediately gave orders to get up steam, and in half an hour we
were under its power with the sails all furled and heading for the
strange sail. It soon became evident that the chase was standing
across our bow to the northwest and was, therefore, most probably
from the coast of Brazil or the Pacific. As she had a very fresh and
fair wind I feared the chase would prove long and tedious, but after
awhile, as the chase altered her bearing, we were enabled to put sail
on the ship, and although the stranger crowded all sail and was evi-
dently fast, we overhauled him after an animated and exciting run of
three and a quarter hours. But we were greatly disappointed to see
him show, when we had approached very near him, English colors.
Hove him to and sent a boat on board of him. He proved to be the
brig Spartan, of Halifax, from Rio to St. Thomas, from Rio 4th Sep-
tember, with no news, except, as he said, the Northerners are catching
hell. Howl enquired the officer. Why, by getting themselves
so badly whipped by the Southerners. We had boarded him under
United States colors. The skipper was a little ruffled, no doubt, by
being hove to. Latitude, 90 13; longitude, 470 21. Bore away to the
southward and eastward under sail, letting the steam. go down. This
night was what seamen call a dirty one. The wind increased to a
moderate gale, getting up quite a heavy sea, and a succession of
violent rain squalls passed over us. The ship rolled and tumbled so
violently as to render every one uncomfortable, and I was obliged to
shift from my berth to my hammock to get a little repose. Latitude,
8~ 31; longitude, 470 08.
	Sunday, October 6.Squally, with a heavy sea and threatening-look-
ing weather. Barometer, 29.87. Blowing a gale by meridian. The
wind hauled gradually from E. N. E. to S. E. and S. S. E. in the
course of nine or ten hours. Weather moderated about 9 p. m. Lati-
tude, 80 31; longitude, 470 08.
	Monday, October 7.Dull, leaden clouds, with some sea left from th

Page 714

714 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

blow of yesterday. Wind about east and moderate. Turned the reefs
out of the topsails and made all sail to the S. S. E. Latitude, 8~ 13;
longitude, 470 13. Wore to the northward and eastward at 6 P. in.;
wind light and sea comparatively smooth during night.
	Tuesday, October 8.Morning fine, with light winds from the east;
weather clear, with passing clouds during the day. At meridian wore
to the southward and eastward. Nothing in sight. Truly we are in
the doldrums. Latitude, 80 52; longitude, 460 44. Current to the
northward and eastward; N. E. trades strong during the night.
	Wednesday, October 9.Clear weather, with passing trade clouds,
and occasionally the appearance of a squall. Fresh N. E. trades. Lat.
itude, 70 21; longitude, 46~ 30; currrent S. S. W. 26 miles.
	Thursday, October 10.Weather clear, with trade clouds and occa-
sional squalls; wind light from S. E. to E. Current S. E. 25 miles.
Latitude, 60 22; longitude, 450 48.
	Friday, October 11.Morning clear and calm. Tide rips. Squally
appearance in the S. E. at noon. Latitude, 60 38; longitude, 450 13.
We are within 35 miles of N. W. crossing.
	Saturday, October 12.Morning thick, rainy and squally, with a light
breeze from the S. I have fairly given up the western side of my line,
and am now making the best of way to the eastward. At noon to-day
we are exactly on the crossing, being in latitude 60 56 and longitude
440 41. In the 25 days that we have been in the calm belt the ship
has never been still an instant. We have at no time had a flat calm.
	Sunday, October 13.Morning clear, with trade clouds and a slight
squall occasionally. We have taken the N. E. trade again, the wind
being light from the N. E. At 10 a. m. wore ship to the northward
and westward with the intention of abandoning our cruising ground,
on which we have had so little success, and making our way slowly
under sail to Barbados or Grenada. Latitude 70 04, longitude 440 47.
At 11 a. m. mustered the crew and read the articles of war.
	Monday, October 14.Morning and until meridian fresh trade, with
squalls. At noon she plotted on the diagonal between St. Boque and
New York, in latitude 8~ 31, longitude 450 56.
	Tuesday, October 15.Clear, with passing trade clouds; wind fresh
from the N. E. Day dawned as usual, with nothing in sight. Lati-
tude, 90 36; longitude, 48~ 11. Running W. N. W.
	Wednesday, October 16.Clear, with many passing trade clouds and
wind blowing half a gale from about E. N. E. Latitude, 10~ 22; longi-
tude, 500 05.
	Thursday, October 17.Clear, with many passing trade clouds;
blowing half a gale from the N. E., with a heavy sea pitching and
tumbling about as usual. Nothing in sight save the heavens and the
blue sea. We have been thirty-two days at sea, and seen but two sail
in all that time. Latitude, 110 37; longitude, 510 49.
	Friday, October 18.Morning, rain squalls and calm; wind N. E. at
$ a. in., weather clearing toward noon. Nothing in sight. Latitude,
13~ 01; longitude, 530~ 12.
	Saturday, October 19.Morning clear, with the wind light from the
eastward. The sea heavy and confused as after a gale of wind.
Nothing in sight. No sight forlatitude. Latitude, D. R., 130 33; longi-
tude, 530 46.
	Sunday, October 20.Morning, a rain squall, weather becoming more
settled about noon; light, variable winds, N. E., N. N. W., and S. E.
Latitude, 13~ 46; longitude, 540 06.
	Monday, October 21.Calms and light airs from the eastward, wit

Page 715

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	715

rain squalls. Nothing in sight and no observation for latitude. Lati-
tude, I). ZR., 140; longitude, 540 07.
	Tuesday, October 22.Weather fine, with a light breeze from the
S.	E. Latitude, 14~ 21; longitude, 540 16. Nothing in sight. Fired
at target.
	Wednesday, October 23.Weather fine, with a smooth sea and calms
and light airs from the southward and eastward. All starboard stud-
ding sails set. Latitude, 14~ 36; longitude, 540 37. Verily it is dis-
heartening. It is now eighteen days since we have seen a sail.
	Thursday, October 24.Cloudy, with the wind from the eastward.
At 6:30 a. m. descried a sail in the northeast; got up steam and gave
chase. At 9 came up with a brig, which proved to be a Frenchman
(the Noir Mouch 6), from Nantes to Martinique. Sent a boat on board
of him. He had no newspapers, and said he knew the United States
were at war (we had the United States colors flying), but with whom
he did not know. Enlightened Frenchman! Or this may teach us a
lesson of humility, as showing us how little is thought in Europe of the
American revolution. The brig was a clumsy specimen of architec-
ture and was out forty-two days. We detained her less than half an
hour and permitted her to go on her course again. Our ill luck seems
to culminate, for two out of the only three sail we have seen in thirty-
nine days have proved to be foreign. Latitude, 150 20; longitude,
540 51.
	Friday, October 25.Fresh breeze from the N. E. and trade-wind
weather; morning, a few rain squalls, clearing, but with passing clouds,
as the sun gained altitude. Latitude, 16~ 54; longitude, 550 30. After-
noon, heavy, overcast sky, with half a gale of wind. At 2:50 p. m.
descried a sail on the starboard quarter bearing about E. S. E. Got
up steam and gave chase, and at 5 p. m. came up with, fired a blank
cartridge at, and spoke a Prussian ship, which I caused to heave to for
the purpose of sending a boat on board of him, but as in the meantime
the wind freshened and considerable sea had arisen, and as I had no
doubt of the character of the ship, I gave him leave to fill away and
proceed on his course (to some one of the Windward Islands) without
boarding him. As I was rounding the ship to, near this vessel, we
came so near a colmision that my heart stood still for a moment as the
bow of the huge, heavily laden ship passed our quarter almost near
enough to graze it. If she had been thrown upon us by one of the
heavy seas that were running, we should probably have been cut down
to the waters edge and sunk in a few minutes. This will give me a
lesson as to the space my long ship requires to turn in when she has a
sea on the quarter or bow. We are forty days out to-day, have seen
4 sail, and 3 of the 4 have proved to be foreign. I am not discouraged,
however, but I have had an excellent opportunity to practice the
Christian virtue of patience, which virtue, I think, I am a little defi-
cient in.
	Saturday, October 2G.Clear, cloudy, squally; clear at noon, wind
fresh from E. by IN. to E. N. E. This is certainly the most capricious
climate at this season in the world, since we have half a dozen changes
in a day. Latitude,18013; longitude, 56~ 04
	Sunday, October 27.Abeautiful, clear day, with alight breeze from the
E. N. i~. and a few summer-like passing trade clouds. Two sail in one
day. At 8:30 a. m. a sail was descried in the S. E. We immediately
gave chase with all sail, and added steam to sails in about an hour and
a half. We came up with the chase about 3 p. in., the chase proving
very fast. We showed as usual the United States colors, the chas

Page 716

716 OPE1lA~TIONS OF THE QIUJISER~CONFEDERATE.

showing the same. Fired a blank cartridge and ordered the chase
hove to. Sent a boat on board and captured him, hauling down the
United States and hoisting onr flag, as our officer got on board. She
proved to be the schooner Daniel Trowbridge, of New Haven, Conn., from
New York to Demerara, with a cargo of provisions, cargo belonging to
same owner as vessel, D. Trowbridge, of Connecticut. Sent a prize
crew on board and left in pursuit of another sail that had been descried
in the meantime, with which we came up at dark. She proved to be a
brigantine from Novia Scotia to Demerara (English). Permitted him
to proceed on his course. Banked fires and put the ship under sail,
with a light at the peak and the prize in company. Latitude, 170 54;
longitude, 560 30.
	Monday, October 28.Fine, clear weather, with a moderate sea and
a light breeze. Called the prize within hail, hoisted out the Talla-
poosa, and sent her alongside and commenced receiving provisions. I
felt truly thankful to a kind Providence for this windfall, for we were
running short of provisions, beef bad and wormy bread, and here were
more than we needed of the best pork, beef, hams, flour, bread, crack-
ers, etc. This was truly a Yankee cargo, there being a large number of
pigs, sheep, and geese on board. A busy, bustling day, with boats pas-
sing to and fro, and men busy on both ships with boxes, barrels,
etc. To get at the cargo we threw overboard the superincumbent
articles, and strewed the sea with Connecticut woodenware and brooms.
Latitude, 17~ 03; longitude, 570 07.
	Tuesday, October 29.Another favorable day for unloading the prize;
wind light from eastward and not much sea on. We are filling up
with five months provisions. In the meantime we are enjoying the
luxury, far away out at sea and forty-three days from port, of fresh
meat, the sheep on board the prize being in excellent condition, and I
had them slaughtered in sufficient numbers for the crew yesterday
and to-day. At noon the sky becoming overcast. Latitude, 16~ 54;
longitude, 570 33.
	Wednesday, October 30.A beautiful, serene day, with a light breeze
from the southward and eastward, and a smooth sea. At 7 a. in., Sail
ho! from aloft. Dispatched a couple of boats to the prize schooner to
bring away some of the live stock, and sent orders to the prize master
to set fire to the prize and return on board. These orders being all
executed and the boats run up, at 8:30 steamed in pursuit of the
strange sail. At 11 came up with and sent a boat on board of the
Banish brig Una, from Copenhagen to Santa Cruz, sixty-six days out.
Permitted her to proceed on her course after a detention of about half
an hour. We showed her the United States colors. This evening,
having directed the junior lieutenant to send to the master of the prize
schooner D. Trowbridge for two log slates of the schooner, which he
(the master) had put among his private luggage, it was reported to me
that the master in delivering these articles to the messenger, the
sergeant of marines, used this insolent language: Damn them, I hope
they will do them no good, and if they want a shirt I can send them
that too. I had this man seized and put in double irons. Latitude,
160 40; longitude, 580 16.
	Thursday, October 31.Beautiful, clear weather, with a light r~reeze
from the southward and eastward. Got up and secured the ball car-
tridges, some of which had been damaged by the dampness, and over-
hauled the port pump, which had gottemi out of order. At 2 a. in., a
light having been reported to me, I ordered the steam gotten up and
made pursuit. As we came up with it we found it to be a burnin

Page 717

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	717

fragment of the prize schooner which we had fired eighteen hours
before. Banked fires. We have been greatly interested since our last
capture in examining a lot of newspapers found on board. They are as
late as the 8th of October, and give us most cheering accounts of the
war. We have gloriously whipped the enemy at all points, and have
brought Missouri and Kentucky out of the Union; and the tone of the
European press is highly favorable to our cause and indicates a prompt
recognition of our independence, and all this cheering information we
get from the enemy himself. Latitude, 16~ 54/; longitude, 570 59. The
master of the prize schooner Trowbridge having made a very humble
apology for his conduct of yesterday and asked to be released from
confinement, I directed him to be discharged from close custody and
have his irons taken off.
	Friday, November 1.Morning cloudy, with light variable winds
and a swell from the northwest. Rain near noon. Latitude, 160 52;
longitude, 570 25.
	Saturday, November 2.Morning, heavy clouds, with rain, breaking
away somewhat toward noon. Spread the awnings and caught some
water. Sail, ho!~~ at early dawn. Got up steam and gave chase, and
at 7 a. m. came up with and sent a boat on board the British brigantine
Falcon, from Halifax to Barbados. Banked fires. Latitude, 160 32;
longitude, D. iR., 56~ 55. Wore ship to the northward at meridian~
Received some papers from the Falcon, but not so late as our previous
advices by the Trowbridge. The Keystone State was in Trinidad in
pursuit of us early in August, and the Powhatan at Cura~ao on the
last of August. At 4 p. m. a sail was descried from aloft, and half an
hour afterwards another. Got up steam, and at 5 p. in., or just one hour
before dark, gave chase to one of the sail, with which we came up
about 7 p. m. Sent a boat on board of her. She proved to be a British
brigantine, fourteen days from Halifax, bound to Demerara. By this
time it had become very dark, and the other sail had passed out of
sight. Banked fires. Rain. We have thus seen three sail in one day.
And of the nine we have spoken on this cruise seven have been foreign!
But patience; fortune will smile hereafter.
	Sunday, November 3.Weather fine, with a smooth sea and a light
breeze from the northward and eastward. At 6:30 a. m. a sail was
reported in the southwest. Got up steam and gave chase. As we
approached we perceived the stranger to be a steamer under sail, and
soon afterwards she hoisted the white English flag. Cleared ship for
action and approached the stranger within three miles, from which
distance it appearing plainly that she was an English man-of-war, we
banked fires, made sail, and wore ship to the southward and eastward.
Filled six of the water tanks with salt water. At 11 a. m. mustered
the crew. Latitude, 16~ 35; longitude 570 38
calms.	,	. Evening, light airs and
	Monday, November 4.Weather fine, with light breeze from the east-
ward and a long, undulating sea. At 8 a. m. bore up west for the
islands. Latitude, 16~ 43; longitude, 570 45. Our live stock still gives
us fresh provisions and the ample stock of Irish potatoes received from
the prize are having a good effect upon the health of the crew, who
were beginning to show scorbutic symptoms.
	Tuesday, November 5.Weather fine, with a light breeze from the
eastward and a smooth sea. At 6:30 a sail was descried in the north-
east. Got up steam and gave chase. As we advanced a second sail
was descried in the north. At 9 came up with and sent a boat on
board the English brigantine Rot hsay, from Berbice for Liverpool. W

Page 718

718 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

then gave chase to the second sail, and after we had advanced a short
distance a third sail was reported, nearly in the same direction. At
10:30 came up with and sent a boat on board of the French brigantine
Poor Orphan, from St. Peters [St. Pierre] (France) to Martinique. Made
chase now of the third sail, and at 12:40 came up with and spoke and
sent boat on board the English ship Plover, from Barbados to London.
Latitude, 17~ 10; longitude, 590 06. Banked fires at 1 p. in., and put
the ship under short sail.
	Wednesday, November 6.*~Weather very fine, with a light breeze
from the eastward and a smooth sea; trade clouds fleecy and indicating
settled weather. Steering S. W. under topsails. Latitude, 160 39;
longitude, 590 54. Hauled by the wind on the port tack at midnight
to avoid Deseada [Wsirade] and Petite Terre.
	Thursday, November 7.Weather fine, with a moderate breeze from
the eastward and a smooth sea. At daylight, Sail, ~7 close aboard.
Got up steam and gave chase, and at 7 a. in. came up with and sent a
boat on board of the English schooner Weymouth, from Weymouth,
Nova Scotia, to Martinique. This is the fourteenth sail we have spoken
during the cruise, twelve of which have been foreign; the last nine con-
secutively have been foreign. At 7, land was reported from aloft, the
island of iDeseada [Wsirade] bearing W. N. W. We soon after made
the island of Marie-Galante, Guadeloupe, and the Saints, and at 10:30
the island of Dominica. Latitude, 160; longitude, 60~ 46. At 4:30
p. in. doubled the north end of Dominica and steered S. W., bankin gthe
fires. At 5, showed the United States colors to an English bark off the
month of Prince Rupert Bay; she being within the marine league of
the land, we did not board her. At 9:30 Sail, ho! close aboard. Beat
to quarters and got up steam, andin fifteen minutes gave chase. Lu
half an hour came up with and sent a boat on board of the French brig
Fleur de Bois, from Martinique to Bordeaux. Banked fires and made
sail. Reports no Yankee vessels in Martinique.
	Priday, November 8.Weather fine, with a light breeze from the N.
E. and a smooth sea. At daylight a sail was reported in sight in the
W. S. W. Got up steam and gave chase. At 8 a. m. came up with and
sent a boat on board of the English brigantine , of Yarmouth,
Nova Scotia, from IDemerara to Yarmouth. Put the ship under steam,
steering S. E. by S. The mountains of Dominica dimly in sight at a
distance of about 40 miles. Seventeenth sail overhauled this cruise.
Latitude, 150 08; longitude, 61~ 54. At 1:30 p. m. made the island of
Martinique, a bold and picturesque island, and at 6 let the steam go
down and put the ship under trysails, the town of St. Pierre bearing
at 8 p. m. N. E. 4 E., distant 6 miles. Several small coasting schooners
and sloop plying near the shore as we ran in for the town. Near
enough to the town to hear the 8 oclock gun. Hauled off at 6 p. in.,
let the steam go clown, and stood S. by W. under easy sail during the
night.
	Saturday, November 9.Weather fine during the morning. At day-
light got up steam and stood in for the land to the northward of Fort
St. Louis Bay [Martinique], running down the coast as we approached.
The coast all the way in to the anchorage is bold and clean. Ran
within 300 yards of Negro Point, passing a passenger steamer bound
to St. Pierre, and anchored in six fathoms water, with the south end of the
fort bearing E. 4 5., and wharf about N. by E. A pilot soon after came
on board, and we got up anchor and went into the Car~nage east of the
fort, the health officer visiting us in the meantime and giving us pra
* Anniversary of the election of Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States

Page 719

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

tique. Sent a lieutenant to call on the governor and afterwards visited
him myself. I stated in this interview that I had come into Martinique
to refresh my crew and obtain such supplies as I needed, coal included.
The governor replied that he could not supply me with coal from the
Government stock, but I was free to go into the market and purchase
what I wanted, he, the governor, not knowing anything about it; and
that as to my prisoners, if the U. S. consul at St. Pierre would become
responsible for their maintenance, I might land them. With his con-
sent I sent the two masters up to St. Pierre in the packet to see their
consul and arrange the matter. I dispatched, also, the paymaster to
look after coal and clothing for the crew, giving leave to Lieutenant
Chapman to accompany him. The governor at one time ordered me to
shift my berth by returning to my first anchorage, but countermanded
this order upon my demanding an explanation of it. He seemed dis-
posed, too, to restrict my procuring supplies at this place, on the
ground that it was merely the seat of government and a military and
naval station, but upon my insisting upon my rights, under the treaty
proclamation, to be treated in all respects as a lawful belligerent, etc.,
he abandoned this point. The French colonies are governed by the
minister of marine, naval officers being the governors and chief officials.
The governor of Martinique is a rear-admiral. Evening, rain. Let
some of the men go on shore.
	&#38; tnday, November 10.Rain in the early morning, clearing toward
8 oclock. Went on shore and accompanied Mr. Guerin to the gover-
nors mass 8 a. m. The interior of the church is very pleasing, with
some valuable paintings. The congregation was small. A detachment
(one corn pany from each regiment) of soldiers entered the main aisle
and formed in double lines a few minutes before the commencement of
the service. The governor, with his staft entered punctually and the
service lasted about threequarters of an hour; fine music from a band
in the orchestra. The blacks and whites occupy pews indiscriminately,
though there is no social mixture of the races. All colors have the
same political rights, notwithstanding which the jealousy and hatred
of the whites by the blacks is said to be very great. Was visited by
Mr. Guerin and a number of gentlemen, members of the colonial legis-
lature and others, to whom I explained the true issue of the war, to wit, an
abolition crusade against our slave property; our population, resources,
victories, etc., to all of which they listened with much appearance of
gratification, and which they also expressed from time to time, lament-
ing the blind policy of the home government. Mustered the crew and
read the articles of war. Three of the prisoners have shipped. Let
another batch of liberty men go on shore. Two of yesterdays batch
did not come off in time this morning; since came on board. Vi~ited
the Savannah [Fort St. Louis] to hear the music, which is given every
Sunday evening. It was a gay and beautiful scene, the moon, the shade
trees, the statue of Josephine, the throng of well-dressed men and
women, the large band and the fine music, the ripple of the sea, and
last, though not least, the katydids, so fraught with memories of home
dear home!
	Illionday, November 11.Weather clear and pleasant, with refreshing
trade winds. Watering ship. Visited the town and went shopping in
company with Mr. Guerin. Found French manufactured clothing, etc.,
reason ably cheap. In the afternoon strolled on the heights in the rear
of the town, amid was charmed with the picturesque scenery on every
hand. The little valleys and nooks in which nestle the country houses
are perfect pictures, and the abrupt and broken country presents delight

Page 720

720 OPERATIONS 01? THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

fiil changes at every turn. I saw but few signs of diligent cultivation.
The negro race is here, as it is everywhere else, an idle and thriftless one,
and the purliens of the town where they are congregated are dilapi-
dated and squalid. The statue of Josephine in The Savannah is a very
fine specimen of the arts. It represents her in her natural garb, and she
appears, indeed, a charming woman. This is her native island. The
U. S. consul came down to-day from St. Pierre, and I landed the remain-
der of the prisoners, twelve in number, putting them on parole. I had
them all assembled in the gangway and questioned them as to their
treatment o~i board. They all expressed themselves satisfied with it.
The officers returned from St. Pierre and reported that coal was to be
had, but that the collector of the customs had prohibited the merchants
from selling it to us. Wrote the governor on the subject.
	We have the gratifying intelligence that Captain ilollins, with some
armed steamers, had driven the enemy from the mouth of the Mississippi,
sinking time Prebie and driving the other vessels onthebar of the South-
west Pass. Mr. Seward has issued a proclamation desiring the gov-
ernors of the Northern States to put their forts, etc., in condition as
well on the seaboard as on the lakes. This, with Freinonts abolition
proclamation, will be of great service to us. Quem Deus. etc The
governor consents to my coaling at St. Pierre.
	Tuesdcy, November 12.Fine, pleasant weather. Watering ship. I
did not visit the shore to-day. Some of the officers are on shore dining,
etc., with the French naval officers. There is evidently great sympathy
for us iii the island. We have gotten on board all our liberty men, no
one of theni having shown a disposition to desert. At 9 p. m. a drunkeii
fireman jumpe(l overboard and swam ashore, in spite of the efforts of a
boat to catch him. He thns braved the discipline of the ship solely for
a glass of grog, so strong upon him was the desire for drink. We sent
an officer for him and caught him in a grog shop. It is reported to
us as coming from the captain of the port that there is a frigate cruis-
ing off the Diamond Rock. The ship Siam arrived to-day with 444
coolies.
	Wednesday, November 13.Got up steam and unmoored ship at day-
light, and at 6:30 passed out of the harbor of Fort Royal, or rather, now
Fort de France. The pilot repeated the intelligence that there was a
frigate off the Diamond Rock. As we passed the picturesque country
seat of the governor, perched upon a height overlooking the sea, we
hoisted the Freiich flag at the fore. Passed the St. Pierre steamer on
her way down. At 8 came to in the harbor of St. Pierre at the man-
of-war anchorage, south of the town. Several of the custom-house
officers visited us, saying that they had not come on board officially
but merely out of civility and from curiosity to see the ship. Sent a
lieutenant on shore to call on the commandant and make arrangements
for the pnrchase and reception of coal, dispatching to the collector the
governors order to permit us to embark it. At 1 p. m. shifted our
berth nearer to the shore for the convenience of coaling, mooring head
and stern with a hawser to the shore. Received on board 30 tons by 9
p. m. Sent down the foreyard for repairs. Quarantined the paymaster
and surgeon for being out of the ship after hours, but upon the explana-
tion of the former released them both. The market square near the
water is thronged with a dense crowd eagerly gazing upon the ship,
and the newspaper of to-day gives a marvelous account of us, a column
in length. Among other amusing stories they claim me to be a French
officer, formerly serving on board the Mereure.
	Thursday, November 14.Rain in the forenoon. Busy coaling an

Page 721

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	721

getting on board a few necessary stores. The dense throng still con-
tiiiues at the market place, and the ship has been thronged with visitors.
It is reported that the Iroquois sailed from Trinidad on the 2d
November, and that there are three ships of war of the enemy at St.
Thomas, one sail vessel arid two steamers, and that one of them was
expected here last night. She has not yet made her appearance. It
will be difficult for her to prevent our sailing. At 2:30 p. m. the steam
sloop Iroquois of the enemy made her appearance, coming around the
north end of the island. She had at first Danish colors flying, but soon
changed them for her own. She steamed ahead of us very slowly, and
taking up a position some half to three-fourths of a mile from us, stood
off an on during the afternoon and night. Finished receiving our coal
and provisions (sugar and rum) at about 9 p. in., when I permitted the
crew to have their hammocks as usual. Directed everything to be
kept ready for action. Visited in the afternoon by the mayor of the
city and some gentlemen, who assured me of the sympathy of the citi-
zens and of the colony generally. At 1:30 a. m. I was called by the
officer of the deck and informed that the Iroquois was standing in for
us and approaching us very close. Called all hands to quarters and
made all preparations to receive the enemy in case he should attempt
to run us on board. He sheered off, however, when he came within 300
or 400 yards. He repeated this operation several times during the mid-
watch, imposing upon us as often the necessity of calling the men to
quarters. Indeed, from about 2:30 they slept at their guns. Great
excitement pervades the entire city. The market square, the quays, and
the windows of the houses are thronged by an eager and curious mul-
titude, expecting every moment to see a combat. The enemy approached
us at one time within a ships length.
	Friday, November 15.Fine, bright morning. At 7:30 a French
steamer of war * came in from Fort de France and made fast to one of
the buoys. The Iroquois about a mile from us. At 8:30 sent a boat on
board the Frenchman to pay the usual ceremonial visit. The throng
in the town unabated, multitudes being gathered near the water look-
ing out upon the two ships. At 10 the French captain paid me a visit.
He came up. he said, with orders from the governor, to preserve the
neutrality of the port between the two belligerents, and in case the
Iroquois came to anchor, to demand of the captain a promise that he
would not proceed to sea for twenty-four hours after our own depar-
ture. I wrote to the governor, informing him of the violation of the
neutrality of the port by the Iroquois, and desiring him to apply the
proper remedy. During this night the Iroquois did not approach
us so near as the past night. Closed in the gun deck ports, got the
swinging booms alongside and directed the crew in case of being called
to quarters during the night to repair to the spar deck as boarders,
boarding being the mode in which the enemy would attack me, if at all.
	&#38; ilurday, November 16.Morning fine, threatening rain about noon.
The iroquois ahead of us, about a mile distant. At 10 a. m. I returned
the visit of the French commander. I pointed out to him the insolent
manner in which the Iroquois was violating the neutrality of the port.
No additional orders have been received from the governor. Scraping
an(l painting ship and repairing the engine to put it in thorough con-
dition for service. At meridian the Iroquois came to anchor about half
a mile from us, at the man-of war anchorage. The captain of the Ach-
eron visited me to say that the governor had directed him to say to me

* Acheron, Captain Duehaxel

Page 722

722 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUJSERSCONFEDERATF.

jf I preferred it lie would be glad to have me visit Fort de France
with my ship, where he could afford me more ample protection, and
whither he presumed the Iroquois would not follow me, and if she did
that he would compel her to depart from French waters. I replied that
before deciding upon this invitation I would wait and see whether the
Iroquois accepted the coudition of remaining twenty-four hours after
my departure or departing twenty-four hours before me. The Iroquois
got underway again immediately after anchoring, and in the evening
the captain of the Acheron sent a lieutenant on board of me to say that
the commander of the Iroquois refused to accept the condition, and
that he had been directed to withdraw himself beyond the marine
league in consequence. She remained a few hours to supply herself
with refreshments, and at nightfall took her station, but not at the dis-
tance of a league, dnring the night. We have thus taught this igno-
rant Yankee captain some knowledge of and some respect for the law
of neutrality. In the afternoon I took a delightful stroll along the
beach to the northward.
	Sunday, November 17.Morning fine. Visited the church opposite
the ship and heard mass. The congregation was very large, composed
chiefly of blacks (women). We were politely invited into the trustees
pew. A short sermon, chiefly addressed to some young persons who
had just made their first communion, was delivered by a good-looking
young priest, who had good command of language, and was easy and
graceful in his manners. A sort of police officer or fugleman officiated
here as at Fort Royal [Fort de France], a feature which I did not like.
The iroquois preserves her distance by daylight.
	Monday, November 18.Fine, pleasant weather, wind light tnd vari-
able. The enemy cruising off the harbor as usual. During the morn-
ing a French man-of war schooner arrived from Fort de France with
the governor on board (who visits St. Pierre to distribute premiums to
the schools) and about a hundred troops to reenforce the fort. Repair-
ing our machinery and painting ship. Some boatmen have been impris-
oned by the authorities for going out to the enemy. At nightfall the
director of the customs came off to see me, and said that the governor
had said to him that he expected to see the captain of the Sumter at
his, the directors house; adding that he said this of his own motion,
the governor not having authorized him to say as much to me. I took
the hint ard went on shore, accompanied by my clerk, at 8 p. in., to call
on his Excellency. He did not seem to have anything in particular to
say except to renew his invitati9n to me to go to Fort de France in my
ship, which I declined, on the ground that this would be a more con-
venient port from which to escape and one affording more facilities for
the repairs of my engine. He told me that the captain of the Iroquois
pleaded ignorance as to his violation of the neutrality of the port, but,
added he, he knew better. An American (enemy) schooner got under
way at dusk and stood out to the Iroquois, where she remained about
an hour before proceeding on her course to the northward and westward.
	Tuesday, November 19.Some surf observable this morning, imicreas-
ing until about 4 p. in., with the wind variable, settling for a short time
in the southeast. I became anxious on account of my berth, which was
represented to me as insecure in case of a biow from the seaward. I
sent and got the pilot on board, but when he came he said he thought
we should not have bad weather, and as by this time the sea had gone
down, I was of his opinion, and con eluded to remain at my anchors for
the present, especially as the repairs to our machinery would be finished
by to-morrow eveuing~ Heavy rain in the evening. The Iroquoi

Page 723

	6PERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	723

within the marine league. Visited by the commander of the French
schooner of war whom we called on yesterday. About 10 a. m. the
British mail steamer arrived from St. Thomas. Sent a boat on board
of her and got English papers to the 1st November. She brings intel-
ligence of the enemys steamer iS1an Jacinto having boarded an English
steam packet, and taken out of her Messrs. Slidell and Mason who
had been carried to The llavannah by the Nashville [Theodora]. The
English people will regard this as an insult to their flag, and in this
way it may do us good. Night clear, moon rising a little before 8; not
quite darkness enough for our purpose yet.
	Wednesday, November 20.Morning clear, wind variable, clouding
toward noon. The Iroquois never loses sight of us, violating the neu-
trality of the port by night, by coming within the marine league to
observe us. Sent the engineer on shore to hurry the repairs of his
pumps. Loosed sails. Furled at meridian and ordered the fires to be
lighted at 1 p in., the weather looking unsettled. Heeled .the ship and
scraped the grass oft~ her port side, near the water line. The Iroquois
crawled in again last night, within about a mile and a half. The night
being cloudy we lost sight of her in the early part of the night for the
first time.
	Thursday, November 21.Cloudy, with slight showers of rain. Drew
the charges from the battery and reloaded it and examined and put
in order for action the small arms. Got up some barrels of wet pro-
visions and arranged them on each side of the quarter-deck to trim
ship, she being an inch or two too much by the head. A boat employed
fillimig up our water. Changed our fasts to the shore in readiness for
a move. Hurrying the engineer with his work. I fear every moment
to see another enemys ship arrive. During the morning the governor
returned in the Acheron to Fort de France and in the afternoon the
Acheron returned. Wrote a note to the latter, complaining of the con-
tinued violation of the neutrality of the port by the enemys ship. Did
not like the tone of it; will reply to it. Engineer not ready, and so
we are obliged to lie over another day.
	Friday, November 22.Morning partially cloudy. The enemy about
two and a half miles distant. The engineer will be ready to-day, and
God willing, we will get out to-night. Wrote to the captain of the
Acheron in reply to the position assumed by the governor. Muffled
the windlass. Getting on board some water. List night between 8
and 9 oclock,the engineer being on shore near the north end of the
town, saw two of the Iroquois~ boats, and heard one of them say to the
other, Harry, thats she; I see her,~~ in allusion, doubtless, to the pres-
ence of this vessel. We were all very anxious, as the night approached,
as to the state of weather, and lo! for the first time in five or six days
we had a beautiful starlight night, without a speck of a cloud any-
where to be seen. The enemy continued in plain sight, and our black
smoke, as it issued from the stack, would have betrayed us at a distance
of five miles. We were therefore reluctantly compelled to give up the
attempt.
	Saturday, November 23.Beautiful clear morning, with every appear-
ance of settled weather. Fine star-lit nights and clear settled days,
though very pleasant to the lover of nature, are not quite such weather
as we require for running a blockade by a ship which keeps herself in
plain sight of us, and which has the heels of us. But we must have
patience and bide our time. Several sails have come in and departed
during the last twenty-four hours. The enemy in the offing, as usual.
Toward noon it began to cloud up and we had some rain, and I ha

Page 724

724 OPERATIONS OF TUE ORUISERSCONFEDERAT~.

strong hopes that we should have a cloudy, dark night. The moon
would not rise until 11:7, and if we could be aided by a few cloads, w.~
should have sufficient darkness, for be it known that in these tropical
climates, where almost every star is a moon, there is no such thing as
darkness when the firmament is clear. But my hopes began to fade
with the day, for one cloud disappeared after another as the sun went
down, until the night promised to be as serene and bright as the last.
Venus, too, looked double her usual size, and being three hours
high at sunset, shed forth a flood of light, little less than that of the
moon in a northern latitude. Notwithstanding all these discourage-
ments, however, I resolved to attempt the run, and having made all the
necessary preparations silently, so as not to awaken the suspicion of
the townspeople, who were always on the alert, at about five minutes
before 8 oclock gun fire I directed the chain to be slipped and the fasts
to the shore cut, and put her under steam. The enemy being on the star.
board bow, and apparently standing toward the north point of the road-
stead, I headed her for the south point, giving her full steam. So much
on the qui vivo were the townspeople that we had scarcely moved 20
yards when a shout rent the air, as [and] there was a confused murmur
of voices as if Babel had been let loose. As we neared the French
steamer of war Acheron, signals were made to the enemy by means of
blue lights from one of the Yankee schooners in port, perceiving which
and knowing that the signals were so arranged as to designate our
direction, after running a few hundred yards further, I doubled and
came back under cover of the land, where I stopped once or twice to
assure myself that the enemy was continuing his course in the opposite
direction in obedience to his signals, when, as soon as the engineer
could do so (for he had to cool his bearings, and this was truly an
anxious moment for me), I gave her all steam and stood for the north
end of the island. As we approached it the fates, which before had
seemed unpropitious to us, began to smile, and a rain squall which had
come up quite unexpectedly began to envelope us in its friendly fold,
shutting in our dense clouds of black smoke, which were really the
worst tell-tales we had to. dread. The first half hours run was a very
anxious one for us; but as we began to lose sight of the lights of the town,
and to draw away from the land, we knew that the enemy had been
caught in his own trap, and that we had successfully eluded him. I
had warned the French authorities that their. neutrality would be dis-
regarded and that these signals would be made, but they took no steps
that 1 could learn to prevent it. The commander of the Iroquois had
been guilty of a shameful violation of good faith toward the French
naval officer, to whom he made a promise that he would respect the
neutrality of the port, by sending his pilot on shore and arranging these
signals with the Yankee skippers. Yankee faith and Panic faith seem
to be on a par.. Our ship made good speed, though she was very deep,
and by 11:30 we were up with the south end of Dominica. Here the
wind fell, and we ran along the coast of the island in a smooth sea, not
more than 4 or 5 miles from the land. The moon by this time being up,
the bold and picturesque outlines of this island, softened by her rays
and wreathed in fleecy clouds, presented a beautiful night scene.
The sleeping town of Roseau barely showed us the glimmer of a light,
and we passed but one coasting schooner. At 2 a. m. we were off the
north end of the island, but now heavy rain squalls came up and ren-
dered it so thick that we were obliged to slow down and even stop the
engine, it being too thick to run. The squall lighting up a little, we
endeavored to feel our way in the dark, and mistook the south for th

Page 725

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	725

north end of Prince liupert Bay and ran into it instead of doubling the
island, and only discovered our mistake when we had gotten fearfully
near the shore and whitened our water. Hauled her broad out, and
again put her under very slow steam. The weather now lighting up
more, we put her under headway again and doubled the island and
shaped our course E. by N. It was now 4:30 a. in., and I went below
and turned in. Deo grctticts. Poor D , the quartermaster, I had to
break him from his high office of night lookout this night. He had been
remarked for his keen vision by night, but on this occasion he was so
perturbed that he saw a steamer bearing down upon us from every
direction, even magnifying small sloops into frigates. The evening of
this day was lovely, and I think I have never seen a more beautiful,
sedative, poetic, love-in-a-cottage landscape than the valley and hills
presented, in which lies the town of St. Pierre. All these charms were
heightened by the presence of grim-visaged war. Our run took every
one by surprise; several of the officers had breakfast and riding appoint-
ments for several days ahead.
	Sunday, November 24.Strong trade wind from N. E. by N., with
heavy bank of rain clouds in the S. E. Steering northeast, with the
Island of IDeseada [Wsirade] on the port beam, distant some 10 miles.
Showed French colors to a French bark standing for Guadeloupe, and
later in the day showed French colors to a Swedish brig standing in for
the islands. Although this was Sunday and muster day, we did not
muster but merely inspected the crew at quarters, in consideration of
all hands having been up nearly all night the previous night. My crew
seem to be highly delighted at onr success in doing the Yankee, but
I am not sure but an old boatswains mate and a hard-weather old qnar.
termaster, who had shaved their heads for a close fight, are not some-
what disappointed that it did not come off. Latitude, 100 12. The
evening being cloudy and the wind fresh, and we being in the track of
commerce, we carried our running lights during the night to avoid
collision.
	Monday, 7~Tovember 25.Morning lear, with trade clouds and a fresh
breeze. At 7 gave chase to an hermaphrodite brig which had the
appearance of a Yankee. We showed him the United States colors as
we came up with him, when, to our disappointment, he hoisted the red
English; we hoisted our own and kept on our course. It is of no use
to chase sails any more in these waters; the Yankees have nearly all
disappeared, and even those who do show themselves are small lum-
bermen from Maine, or provision and live-stock dealers from Connecti-
cut and Massachusetts. Exercised the crew with small arms, and fired
off the loaded muskets and overhauled and cleaned pistols, firing ~f
such of them as had been some time loaded. At 4 p. m. fired a gnu
and hove to the ship Mioutmorenci, of Bath, Me., Brown, master, hoist-
ing our own colors as we fired. This was a large ship of 1,183 tons,
from Newport, Wales; for St. Thomas [West Indies], laden with coal for
the English mail steam-packet service. Put the master and owners under
a ransom bond of $20,000, and took the parole of the master and crew
and released her. Received on board from her some paint, cordage, etc.
At Op. m. we stood on our course. Latitude, 18~ 11; longitude, 58~ 48.
	Tuesday, November 26.Morning, wind moderate and weather fine.
Chased and showed first the United States and then our own colors to
a Spanish transport or ship of war, a bark, mounting six or eight guns.
Hammocks scrubbed and hung in her rigging. Sail, ho I nearly ahead.
Chased and showed first the United States and then our own colors to
a Spanish brig. About 11 a. m. the weather, which was so mild .a~ni

Page 726

726 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

beautiful in the morning, suddenly changed. The sky became clouded
and sullen and the wind freshened to half a gale, raising au angry sea,
and as both wind and sea were in our teeth, we kept her N. by B. and
set the fore-and-aft sails. Latitude, 2~Y~ 07; longitude, 570 12. At 1:30
p. m. showed first the United States and then our own colors to an
English schooner, probably from the Bahamas to the Windward Islands,
and at 3 captured the U. S. schooner Areade* from Portland, Me to
Pointe a Pitre, Gaudeloupe, loaded with staves. Took the master and
crew on board (a rough sea running) and set fire to her. At 4:40 stood
on our course. The blaze of the burning vessel still in sight at 8 p. m.
During the night the wind lulled and became variable, hauled down the
fore and aft sails, and steered N.E. The prize had no newspapers on
board, but we learned from the master that the great naval expedition,
which the enemy had been some time preparing, had struck at Beaufort,
S. C., on Port Royal Sound; no result known.
	Wednesday, November 27.Morning, thick, heavy clouds, with rain,
clearing as the day advanced. From 8 oclock during the rest of the
day, clear, bright weather, with a deep blue sea, and the trade wind
blowing half a gale from the N. E. At 6 p. m. put all sail on the ship
and let the steam go down, to enable the engineer to repair his cut-off~
and patch his boiler. We are experiencing quite a sensible change of
temperature. Latitude, 22~ 22; longitude, 5~O 27. We have the ther.
mometer at 78~ for the first time in five months. We have crossed the
tracks to-day of the homeward-bound United States ships, both from
Cape St. Roque and the Cape of Good Hope, without seeing a sail.
	Thursday, November 28.Weather changeable and squally, wind
shifting frequently during the day, giving indication of oar approach
to the northern limit of the trade wind. Nothing in sight. Evening,
thick weather and rain. Latitude, 240 22; longitude, 570 12.
	Priday, November 29.Thick, ugly weather with frequent squalls of
wind and rain, the wind frequently changing from 2 to 5 points, but
always coming yet from the eastward. The trade wind struggles hard to
retain its dominion, but asin the race in the fable of the north wind and
the sun, the sun will soon conquerwe have only to get a little farther
away from him. At 10 a. m. clear and blowing half a gale of wind
from N. E. Latitude, 25~ 51; longitude, 570 36. The stormy northeast
wind continued all day, the sky as clear as a bell.
	$aturday, November 30.Morning bright and beautiful, with a per-
fectly clear sky and the sea of the deepest azure. The trade wind is
at last succumbing, there being but a gentle breeze this morning and
that inclined to haul to the eastward and thence, I think, to the south-
east and southwest. No sail in sight, nor have we seen any for the last
three days. At meridian nearly calm, heading her course N. E. Lati-
tude, 27~ 16; longitude, 58~ 29. We have thus at length, after a long
battle with the trade wind, been able to turn our head toward Europe.
At 1 p. in., Sail, ho! was cried from aloft. Our fires being out and the
ship under sail I did not give chase. Indeed, I must deny myself this
pleasure until I get well across the Atlantic. I must make most of the
passage under sail, which will probably take me fifty days. I have
only sixty days supply of water for my own crew, and I have in addi-
tion already a prize crew of 6 persons on board. My coal, too, of
	* The master and half owner of this schooner was master of the bark Saxony at
the tim~ of the loss of the Central America and was instrumental in saving lives
on that occasion, for which a handsome spyglass had been presented to him. I had
the pleasure of returning this glass to him, captured among the other effects of his
vessel

Page 727

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS~CONFEDERATE.	727

which I have only six or seven days supply, I must take care of for the
emergencies of weather and for cruising a few days on the other side
before going into port. I should lot like to go in empty-handed.
2: 30p. ni., trade wind about done; barometer, 30.14.
	Sunday, December 1.A beautiful, bright morning, with a glassy sea
and a calm, the light S. E. wind having died away during the night.
We are now truly in the calm belt of Cancer; barometer, 30.16. The
sail which we saw yesterday proved to be a hermaphrodite brig, stand-
i~ig to the northward and westward, l)robably a Bermudian or Nova
S otian. Atit mustered the crew and inspected the ship. At meridian,
calm. Latitude, 270 38; longitude, 580 20.
	Monday, December 2~A beautiful, bright morning. At 8 a. m. a
brisk little breeze sprang up from the eastward, after nearly an entire
calm for two days. This is still the trade wind exhaling its last breath.
Barometer, 30.18. Latitude, 28~ 12; longitude, 58~ 09. We have
experienced again to-day a northerly current of about 13 miles. The
wind has hauled to the S. E. aud seems to increase gradually. Day per-
fectly clear at noon, with a very deep blue sky and sea. The wind
lulled and became very light during the night.
	Tuesday, December 3.A fine, clear day, with a light breeze from the
S. E., freshening. AtO :30, Sail, ho! a point on the starboard bow. At
7:30 the sail, which was standing in nearly the opposite direction from
ourselves, approached us within a couple of miles. We hoisted French
colors, when she showed United States. Took in all the studding sails,
hauled by the wind, tacked, and fired a shotted gun. The stranger
immediately hove to. Lowered a boat and sent a lieutenant on board
of him. Stood on and tacked, and having brought the stranger nuder
my guns I began to feel sum e of him (our smokestack was down and We
could not have raised steam in less than two hours and a half). lie
proved to be the ship Vigilant, of Bath, Me., bound from New York to
the guano island of Sombrero, in ballast. Captured him, took from on
board chronometer, charts, etc., and a 9-pounder rifled gun, with ammu-
nition, etc., and set him on fire, and at 3 p. m. made sail. This was a
fine, new ship, being only two years old, and worth about ~40,000. Lati-
tude, 29~ 10; longitude, 570 22. A fine, fresh breeze the rest of the
afternoon, steering E. by N. We received a large supply of New York
papers to the 21st November. We learn from these papers that the
San Jacinto was in search of us when she took Messrs. Mason and Sli-
dell from omi board the Trent. The enemy has thus done us the honor
to send in pursuit of us the Powkatan, the Niagara, the Iroquois, the
Keystone State, amid the San Jacinto.
	Wednesday, December 4.Weather cloudy and becoming cool; ther-
mometer 76g. We have run some 140 miles to the eastward in the last
twenty four hours. It is delightful to be making so much easting under
sail, after having been buffeted by an east wind for five months, whenever
we have turned our head eastward. Two of the crew of the Vigilant
are blacks, and I have set them at work l)umping the ship out, etc.
Latitude, 300 03; longitude, 550 09. Weather thickening toward
night; night, thick weather, with lightning from the S. W. and N. W.;
wind hauling to time S. W. and lulling about midnight.
	Thursday, December 5.Weather thick and ugly, the wind hauled to
north during the morning watch and blew fresh for awhile. Reefed
the topsails. The thick weather continuing to noon, no observations
were had. Latitude, 30019; longitude, 530 02, D. 11. Afternoon and
night blowing a gale of wind from the N. E. to E. N. E. Single reefed
the topsails, furled the mainsail, and set the reefed main trysail

Page 728

728 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

Weather thick; carried our running lights during the night. At 8:30
hauled~ up the foresail and set fore trysail.
	Friday, December 6.Thick, ugly-looking weather. It blew a gale
all last night and we had a rough sea. This morning the wind has
moderated somewhat, but we have still a heavy sea. Our little ship
behaves beautifully, but she sometimes receives very heavy thumps
under her fiat quarter, the only faulty part about her model. The wind
is from about E. by S., and we are doing little better in the heavy sea
than lying to; in the meantime we are shut down below by a drizzling
rain, and what with the active rolling and tumbling of the ship, we
have but little comfort. At 1 p. m. wore ship to the southward and
eastward; rain. No observation; Latitude, 290 35; longitude, 52~
02, ID. R; wind N. E., hauling northwardly. It blew a gale all night
from the N. E. with squalls of rain.
	Saturday, December 7.The gale broke this morning, after having
continued for two days, but though the weather became clear and the
wind abated, it still continued to blow a fresh breeze from east, the pass-
ing clouds having very much the appearance of the trade winds in
latitude 29~~O. We are standing to the northward. Our ship is leak-
ing a good deal, it taking the two hand pumps about half the time
to keep her free. Most of this water, no doubt, finds its way through
the propeller, but there is rather more than there ought to be, and the
constant jogging of the pumps through half the night gives me some
anxiety. Latitude, 29~ 27; longitude, 510 35.
	Sunday, December 8.It blew a gale of wind again last night; reefed
the topsails. To-day the weather is very capricious, having changed
half a dozen times in as many hours. During the morning the wind
moderated and the weather gave signs of breaking, but it clouded up
again toward noon, and at noon the wind was howling through the
rigging from east. We have thus had an easterly gale for three days.
At 10 a. m. descried a sail from the deck; the weather being thick we
did not see her until she was within 5 miles of us. Being a bark,
taut-rigged, and under topsails and courses, I took her to be a cruiser.
Got up the smokestack and bore down upon the stranger, keeping the
wind of him. Having approached him within a mile and a half fired
a shot ahead of him, hoisting our own colors and hauling (lown the
United States upon firing. He hove to. We now discovered him to
be a whaler. Spoke him and ordered him to send a boat on board with
the master. She proved to be the bark Eben Dodge, twelve days from
New Bedford, bound to the Pacific Ocean on a whaling voyage. Had
had a heavy gale and had sprung sonic of her spars, and stove some of
her boats and was looking badly. Captured her and sent an officer.
and some men on board of her for water and some other articles. Some
sea running. Received from on board the prize some water and other
articles, and brought her crew on board, consisting of 22 persons, and
burned her.* At 6:30 made sail. We have now 4~ prisoners on board.
Hoisted in two of her quarter boats. Latitude, 300 57; longitude,
510 49.
	Monday, December 9.Weather cloudy, with the wind light from
S. E., and a moderate sea. Lowered the smokestack and set ~he main-
sail. Ordered one-half the prisoners (except the 3 masters, some half
dozen boys, and 110 blacks, the latter being detailed for the pumps) to
be kept constantly in single irons, the prisoners being ironed and
	Received a supply of New Bedford and Boston papers, all of which are full of
the capture of Beaufort, S. C., the wealth and resources of the universal Yankee nation,
and New England Thanksgiving, or the Puritan Christmas

Page 729

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	729

released by turns. One of them who was insolent was put in double
irons. At meridian, weather thick and barometer falling; rain in the
afternoon. Latitude, 31~ 35; longitude, 510 14.
	Tuesday, December 10.Morning cloudy and unsettled weather, with
squalls of rain. Barometer at 8 a. m. 29.70, rising at 10, with the wind
light from the north. Ship rolling heavily. Latitude, 32039; longitude,
490 47. AlL our hopes of a westerly wind are baffled; the wind has
hauled to the N. B. Indeed, it is nearly calm, with an ugly sea. As
night advanced the wind settled at east and began to blow. The wind
has thus gone round the compass twice in the last five or six days
without stopping in the west, and we have had a head wind, conse-
quently, nearly all this time. But a seaman has need of patience and
resignation; his profession is one of almos1~ daily crosses and trials.
	Wednesday, December 11.As ugly looking a morning as one could
well conceive; thick, dark, gloomy weather, with the wind blowing
fresh from the east and threatening a gale (barometer 29.70 and fall-
ing), and a steady but moderate rain falling. Put the ship under short
sail. Our large number of prisoners renders the crew very uncomfort-
able during this bad weather, when every one except the watch on
deck is obliged to be below. At meridian gale blowing with a thick,
driving rain. Latitude, 32~ 48; longitude, 490 32, ID. 11. At 2 p. in.
dense clouds hanging very low all around the horizon in every direc-
tion. Wind about E. S. E., inclined to haul to the southward. Barom-
eter 29.59. The pall of clouds is not so dense as at noon, and the rain
comes only occasionally in squalls. The clouds are rifted and appear
to be on the point of rapid motion. Wore ship to the northward and
eastward. The wind soon after backed to the northward and east-
ward, and we had to run the ship off northwest for a while. Toward
night, however, the wind went back to east, and blew very fiercely,
raising a very heavy and irregular sea. Squalls of rain and very vivid
lightning. It blew very heavy until about 1 a. in., when it abated for
more than two hours, blowing only in puffs, and then not very hard,
near the center of the cyclones lowest barometer. A little past mid-
night a quartermaster entered with the report that the starboard bow
port had been stove in. It was then blowing furiously. I immediately
dispatched.the first lieutenant to barricade the port and stop out the
water as effectually as possible, in which he succeeded pretty well.
This report gave me considerable anxiety, as the ports on the gun deck
and the upper works of the ship are her weak points, at which the gale
would assault her with most effect. In the meantime the barometer
has been gradually settling, settling, settling, sometimes remaining sta-
tionary for several hours, and then going down as before. At 8 p. m.
it was 29.53. We had an awftil night; no one able to sleep.
	Thursday, December 12.Thick, gloomy weather, with the gale raging
as tiercely as ever. It blew very heavy all the morning. The barom-
eter has continued to sink until it reached 29.32 at 6 a. in., the lowest
point. The wind has hauled to the S. We are evidently in a cyclone,
having taken it in its northern quarter, the gale traveling north. On
the starboard tack its center has passed to the westward of us.
Ordered the donkey engine to be got ready for use last night in case
the ship should make more water than the small bilge pumps could
throw out. Carried away the flying-jib boom at 7:30 a. m. Saved the
sail. As the gale progressed the wind hauled ~o the southward and
westward, and at 4 p. in., judging that the strength of the gale had
passed us, I kept the ship on her course, B. by S., which gave a quar-
tering wind and sea, and although the sea was heavy and the wind ye

Page 730

730 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUiSERS CONFEDERATE.

blowing a gale, she made beautiful weather of it, scudding as well as
she had lain to. The wind blew fresh all night, with a slowly rising
barometer.
	Friday, December 13.Weather clear, with passing clouds; wind
fresh, but abating; thermometer rising rapidly; gale at an end; wind
S. W. to W. S. W. The cyclone has had a diameter of about 350 to 400
miles, as near as J caii judge. At meridian, barometer 29.70. Latitude,
330 28; longitude, 470 03. Repairing damages after the gale. Baroin-
eter on a stand at 29.70 for the remainder of the day. Wind quite
moderate and night clear arid beautithi at lOp. m. It soon clouded up,
however, and we had a rough, squally night of it, the wind blowing a
gale in squalls.
	Saturday, December 14.Morning cloudy, with a fresh wind from the
N.W. About 7:30 a. m.passed at some distance a ship standing to the
southward and westward. As the weather was bad and we were
already full of prisoners, and some nine hundred miles from land. I did
not chase. We had a fire on the berth deck last night, notwithstand-
ing the presence of two sentries. A pea jacket and a mattress were
found to be partially burned. No doubt some one of the prisoners
lighted a pipe clandestinely, and went to sleep while smoking. The
fire was first discovered by the smoke ascending the ventilator. Pun-
ished all the sentries on post by stopping their grog for a week. Lati-
hide, 330 49; longitude, 440 47. Experienced some westerly cur-
rent.
	Sunday, December 15.A fine, bright morning, with a moderate breeze
from the N. W. and the weather just cool enough to be bracing. At 11
a. m. mustered the crew at quartems and read the articles of war; this
is the first muster we have had for three weeks, owing to bad weather,
etc. I did not inspect the ship below, as the gnu deck, owing to the
still rough sea, is ankle deep in water. The ship is leakiiig about 10
inches per hour altogether, though through the propeller sleeve, as I
believe. She requires to be pumped out twice in each watch. Lati-
tude 340~ longitude 420 05. Westerly current of some 20 miles.
	Monday, December 16.A beautiful, bright day, with a light breeze
from the N. E. We have thus a head wind again. We have got all the
prisoners on deck that the berth deck may be cleaned of the filth that
has accumulated. A marine having been found asleep last imight at his
post over the prisoners, I have ordered a general court-martial for his
trial. The marines being mostly foreigners, Germans, are the most indif-
ferent set of men I have in the ship. It is very difficult to lick them
into shape. Current S. W. by W. 23 miles. Latitude, 330 24; longi-
tude, 400 43. Exercised the battery for the first time for ten days or
more. Soon after nightfall an inquisitive whale came close under the
lee quarter and kept us company for half an hour, blowing every few
minutes. Wind very light and bright moonlight.
	Tuesday, December 17.A fine, clear day, with the wind very light from
the westward. Latitude, 330 24; longitude, 40g. Slight current to
the westward. Making a flying-jib boom. We were visited about sun-
set by another whale, a monster, which left a wake like a ship. Indeed,
we are approaching one of the famous whaling localities, being about
700 miles from the Azores. As the moon rose (full) we had a beautiful
lunar rainbow. Wind light from the westward all night.
	Wednesday, December 18.Most delightful weather, perfectly (ear,
and sun brilliant, with an elastic and invigorating atmosphere. Wind
light from the N. W. Current westward about half a mile an hour.
Latitude, 330 53; longitude, 380 43. We have a sick list to-day of nin

Page 731

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	731

among the crew and three among the prisoners, resulting from change
of temperature and a wet gun deck, on which the men sleep.
	Thursday, December 19.An ugly looking day, with the wind varying
from the north to the northwest, a fresh breeze and squally. The barom-
eter has settled (at noon) to 29.52 and is still going down. There is
undoubtedly another gale of wind brewing. At this season of the year
gales occur as a regular thing every week or ten days. Dense, heavy.
clouds overcasting the sky at noon, no observation was made for lati-
tude. Latitude, ID. IR., 340 30; longitude chronometer (assumed lati-
tude), 36~ 40. The court-martial which assembled on the 16th for ihe
trial of the marine, having got through with its business, was dissolved
to-day. The gale which had been threatening all the morning com-
menced in earnest at 2 p. m.
	Friday, December 20. *Weather clear, with passing clouds; wind
fresh from the N. W.; a considerable sea running after the gale. No
damage done by the late gale, except the staving in of part of a light
plank of the upper works. Latitude, 340 17; longitude, 350 31. Blow-
ing a fresh gale from the N. W. at noon, with the barometer at a stand
at 29.40; wind moderated during the night.
	Saturday, December 21.Clear and cloudy by turns. Wind light
from S. W. to N. W., with a heavy sea remaining after the gale, which
causes the ship to roll very deeply and almost without cessation, ren-
dering her very uncomfortable. We are approaching the Azores one
of the most stormy localities, perhaps, in the North Atlantic durin~ the
winter. Latitude, 350 17; longitude, 330 05. The ship has either been
overlogged or we have had a westerly current of 15 to 20 miles. Sick
list increasing, eleven of the crew and three prisoners sick. Just before
sunset discovered a sail astern.
	Sunday, December22. Sail, ho ! at daylight, doubtless the same one
we saw yesterday evening. Got up steam and gave chase, the sail
having shown an intention to run oft~ before the wind. She soon hauled
up again, however. Came up with her at 11:30 a. in., hoisted our flag
and fired a bow gun, when she ran up French colors. Hauled up on
our course and let the steam go down and made sail. The wind by this
time had hauled to E.,nearly dead ahead. In the afternoon the weather
began to look very ugly again; the barometer,which had not risen above
29.76 since the last gale, began to descend again, and the wind com-
menced that peculiar howl preceding a gale. We are scarcely out of
one gale before we are in another.
	Monday, December 23.A beautiful, bright, clear day, with amiable-
looking white clouds, portending good weather for some days. Con-
fined a seaman for beating a prisoner, and confined a marine for cursing
the corporal while on post. Wind about E. S. E., heading us off a couple
of points. Twelve of the crew on the sick list. Latitude, 36~ 29; lon-
gitude, 32~ 32. Heading at noon E. N. E.
	Tuesday, December 24.An unpropitious Christmas eve, the gale of
last night continuing with rain and a densely overcast sky. The
barometer is rising, however, which is a portent that the gale will not
last long. I have abandoned the idea of attempting to mu into Fayal.
These Azores seem to be so guarded by the furies of the storm that it
would seem to be a matter of great difficulty to reach them in the winter
season. We have thirty-eight days of water on board, allowing a
gallon to a man, but still I have put the officers and crew on an allow-
ance of three quarts per day. I will run for the Strait of Gibraltar,
which will carry me in the vicinity of Madeira, should 1 have occasion

~Anniveraary of the secession of South Carolina. Glorious little State

Page 732

732 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

to make a port sooner. No observation. Latitude, 370 31; longitude,
31~ 30, by computation.
	Wednesday, December 25.Christmas day! bringing with it away
here in mid-ocean all the kindly recollections of the season and home,
and church, and friends. Alas! How great the contrast between these
things and our present condition. A leaky ship, filled with prisoners
of war, striving to make a port through the almost con.stantly recur-
ring gales of the North Atlantic, in midwinter! Sick list, 10 of the
crew and 4 prisoners. Wind fresh from the N. W. We are making a
good run these twenty-four hours. Latitude, 360 08; longitude, 28~ 42.
	Thursday, December 26.The weather showed a disposition to clear
during the morning, but it clouded and became squally again toward
noon. Barometer 29.44. The chances are that we shall have another
gale before we have fair weather, if, indeed, there is any such thing as
fair weather in this portion of the seas at this season of the year.
There was a sail reported from the masthead during the morning watch,
but in the present condition of the ship and in the present condition
of the weather we did not chase. Latitude, 350 09; longitude, 25~ 56.
Wind light from N. at noon, and heavy squall from N. W. The wind
blew a gale during the night from the N. W., but moderated toward
morning. Everybody saw Cape Fly Away in the afternoon.
	Friday, December 27.A fine, clear day, with the wind fresh from the
N. W., and considerable sea; ship rolling deeply, but making good way.
The barometer rises very slowly, it being still at 29.70 at noon. Lati-
tude, 350; longitude, 220 49. Wind light daring the night. A sail
was reported from aloft during the morning watch, but we did not
chase, as we did not see her from the deck, and the chase would have
led us a long way off from our course.
	Saturday, December 28.A fine, bright day, with the wind light from
the S.W. Atdayhight, Sail,ho ! nearlyahead. Tookin stnddingsails
and hauled up to the southward and eastward in chase. Got up steam
and at 11:30 a. in., came up with and sent a boat on board of the English
bark Richibucto, from Liverpool, December 5, to Vera Cruz, laden with
salt. We received some late English papers. The affair of the Trent
caused great excitement in England. The Nashville arrived at South-
ampton on November 21, having towed a Yankee ship on her way.
England feels badly insulted by the Trent affair, but seems about to
pocket the insult through the mediation of Louis Napoleon. Latitude,
350 17; longitude, 20~ 53. This ship gives us the report of Prince
Alberts death. This event will absorb all others for a time in England,
which has always taken great delight in honoring her kings, dead and
living, especially if he be a Dutchman or a German.
	Sunday, December 29.Rainy, with the sky generally overcast and
with a light wind from the S. to S. S. E. Two sail were reported from
the masthead this morning, but as neither of them caine in sight from
the deck, and the chances are ten to one that they are foreign in this
part of the ocean, and as I shall probably be able to make better use
of my fuel as we draw up with the Strait of Gibraltar, I did not chase.
Latitude, 350 43; longitude, 180 59. Made another sail too late to
chase, though she was seen from the deck.
	Monday, December 30. Sail, ho ! at daylight, and Sail, ho ! in suc-
cession during the whole day, until as many as twenty-five werereported.
There were as many as nine or ten in sight at one time, all standing on
the same course, to the southward and westward. Got up steam and
began chasing at 8 a. in. and chased until 4 p. m. The first vessel we
overhauled was a Dutch bark, clipper-looking, on board which we sen

Page 733

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	733

a boat; and we afterwards overhauled and caused to show their flags
fifteen others of the fleet, every one of which was European, viz: Dutch
ships), 4; English (2 barks and 5 brigs), 7; French (1 ship and 1 brig), 2;
Sweedish (brig), 1; Prussian (bark), 1; Hamburg (brig), 1. One of the
results of the war is that in this whole fleet, as far as we could ascertain,
there was not a single Yankee. So many ships at the same time, so far
out at sea, is a sight not often seen. The weather was very thick and
rainy, wind from the S. to E.; a real dirty day, and iu such a state of
weather, with so many ships running down our track, we had serious
apprehensions of collision as the night set in, to guard against which
we set onr masthead as well as side lights. At 4:30 p. m. let the steam
go down and made sail. No observation. Latitude, 350 39; longitude,
17~ 33, D. 11. We first showed the United States colors to all these
vessels, and the only one which saluted it was the Prussian. We
afterwards showed our own flag to a number of them and they all
saluted it, with one or two exceptions. The stream of vessels still con-
tinued after nightfall, two having passed us, showing lights, one ahead
of ns and other astern, at 6:15 p. in., or about one hour after dark. The
wind was blowing fresh from the E. and they came down upon ns with
fearful rapidity. A third sail, showing a light, passed us at 8:30.
	Tuesday, December 31.This is the last day of the year, and a beauti-
ful day it is. It is bright, the air just cool enough to be comfortable,
from the north, and the sea pretty smooth. At daylight a conple of
sail were reported from aloft, but as they were at a great distance
and out of our course we did not chase. Latitude observed, 350 22;
longitude, 16~ 27. A third sail was seen at noon, also at a great dis-
tance. It becoming quite calm at 8 p. m. I put the ship under steam,
being about 490 miles from Cadiz.
	Wednesday, January 1,1862.Nearly calm, wind light from the west-
ward, sky partially overcast, sea smooth; making 9 knots. Nothing
seen during daylight. At night (9) a sail passed us, a gleani of whose
lights we caught for a moment in the darkness. Let the steam go down
at 8, and put the ship under sail. Latitude, 350 53; longitude, 13~ 14.
	Thursday, January 2.Morning cloudy, with the wind fresh from the
south. Clouds breaking and weather clearing partially toward noon.
Two sail were descried from the masthead during the morning watch.
One of them, standing to the westward, under full sail, soon passed out
of sight; the other, standing toward us, we chased and overhauled.
She showed French colors. Latitude, 350 52; longitude, 90 36.
	Friday, January 3.Ugly looking morning, with a falling barometer.
Several sail were reported from the masthead during the morning
watch. We shortened sail to permit one [of] them which was steering
the same course with ourselves to come up with us. She proved to be
a Spaniard. We then gave chase to another ahead of us, running before
the wind for the Strait of Gibraltar. We chased her some two hours,
when it began to blow a fierce gale from the west, which obliged us to
give over the chase and to haul np to prevent running to leeward of
our port, and to pnt the ship under short sail and steam. It blew very
fiercely until near sunset, and raised a heavy, short, abrupt sea, in
which the ship rolled more heavily than I had ever seen her before.
He [it] shook our propeller so as to cause the ship to increase her
quantity of water considerably; so much so, that the engineer reported
that under short steam he was just keeping her free with his bilge
pumps, and that if anything should happen to these he feared the other
pumps would not be sufficient. Under these circumstances I ran in for
the land, cutting short my cruise by a day or two, as I still had thre

Page 734

734 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATJ~X

days coal on board. We made the Cadiz light in the mid watch (my
flue chronometers), a beautiful red flash, and soon after got soundings.
Ran in for the light under low steam, and at 7 a. in. we were within 4 or 5
miles of it. The morning was dark, and wet, and gloomy. We fired a
gun and hoisted the jack for a pilot, and soon after, having received
one on board, we ran into the harbor and anchored. As we approached
the scene was most beautiful in spite of the day. The city of (Jadiz is
a perfect pictnre as you approach it, with domes and towers, and min-
arets, and Moorish-looking houses of a beautiful white stone. The
harbor was crowded with shipping, very thinly sprinkled with Yankees,
who could get no freights, and a number of villages lay aroand the
margin of the bay, and were picturesquely half hidden in the slopes of
the surrounding mountains, all speaking of regenerate old Spain, and
of the populousne~s and thrift of her most famous province of Anda.
lusia. Visited by the health officer, who informed us that unless we
were specially exempted, we should be quarantined for three days for
not having a certificate of health from the Spanish consul at Martinique.
A number of the merchant ships hoisted their flags in honor of our
arrival, and one Yankee showed his in defiance. Latitude and longi-
tude at noon of the 3d: Latitude, 350 49; longitude, 70
	Saturday, January 4.Harbor of Cadiz, ancient Gades, with its
Moorish houses and feluccas, or lateener vessels. Some fine oranges
alongside, the product of this latitude, 360 32, about the same parallel
of Norfolk, Va. It is one hundred and eighty-eight days today since
we ran the blockade at New Orleans, and of this time we have been
one hundred and thirty-six days at sea. We are informed this evening
that the question of our being admitted to pratique (and I presume also
the landing of our prisoners) has been referred to Madrid by telegram.
	Sunday, January 5.Early this morning the health officers came
alongside and brought me an order from the Government to depart
within twenty-four hours, and a tender of such supplies as I might
need in the meantime. I replied, in writing, that I claimed the hospi-
tality of the port as a vessel of war of a recognized belligerent, and
further that I was compelled to decline obedience to the order by the
unseaworthy condition of my ship, which required to go into dock
before she could proceed to sea. At 11:30 a boat with the Spanish
flag anchored a short distance from me, evidently a guard set upon
my movements. * * * The order to proceed to sea was begotten
in the muddy brain of the local authorities. My reply to it having
been telegraphed to Madrid, these authorities were overruled, and the
Queen dispatched an order to permit me to land my prisoners, and to
make such repairs as I needed. So this business, which has troubled
us for a couple of days, is at an end. This evening, just before dark,
a Spanish steam frigate caine down from the navy yard and anchored
near us.
	Monday, January 6.Last night I was aroused at 2:30 a. in., by a
boat from the shore, with a note from the military governor, request-
ing me to delay proceeding to sea, that the benevolent intentions of
her Majestys Government in regard to me might be carried out. The
muddy heads on shore had received a dispatch from Madrid, in reply
to my letter to them. The steam frigate disappeared somehow during
the night. Protested against the presence of a health-guard boat.
	Tuesday, January 7.To-day I received a note from Sehor de Vigo,
the civil governor, informing me that the Queens Government had
consented to permit me to land my prisoners, and to remain for repairs.
He puts my remaining, however, on the ground of necessity, growin

Page 735

	OPERATIONS OF THE ORULSERSCONFEDERAW.	735

out of my crippled condition. Receiyed also a reply from the Yankee
consul to my note about the prisoners; declined to receive it for want
of being properly addressed. Landed all the prisoners. Received
another note from the civil governor, requesting me to hurry with my
repairs, etc. Sent to the captain of the port on the snbject; referred
by him to the captain-general.
	li~ednes&#38; (y, January d.Complained to the civil governor of the
paymaster and surgeon having been called alongside the guard boat
(whilst coming on board in a shore boat). Dispatched a lieutenant to
San Fernando to see the captain-general about docking the ship. lie
returned at nightfall with word that the captain-general would reply
to me in the morning.
	Thursday, January 9.Visited by the engineer of the docks at San
Fernando to ascertain the extent of the repairs which we shall require,
and to take the dimensions of the ship to ascertain whether she can
enter the only dock that is empty.
	Friday, January 10.No answer from the captain-general yet (noon)
as to our being docked. Besides the six ships which Mr. Welles says
have been in pursuit of me, viz, the P~whatan, the Niagara, the San
Jacinto, the Iroquois, the Keystone State, the Richmond (see Secretary
Welles report), the mo and the Daeotah were also employed in this
fruitless bnsiness. We are fairly in the hands of the circumlocution
office. I suppose they are telegraphing to Madrid. The greatest
excitement prevails all over Europe to learn the result of the English
demand for the commissioners; the general impression is that the
Yankees will give them up, and that there will be no war. The packet
from New York is expected in England to-day. In the meantime
Great Britain is calling home her ships of war. The Mediterrean fleet
arrived at Gibraltar the other day, January 2, and threw the commer-
cial community into the greatest consternation. Received final per-
mission this evening from the captain-general to enter dock.
	Saturday, January 11.Cadiz is full of life arid business. Met Mr.
Oliver. He is from the East; says Russia is laying deep schemes for
uniting the whole Slavonic race nuder her rule, and that the cotton
pressure is felt at Constantinople, up the Danube, and in short all
over eastern Europe. Received permission from the governor to land
the marine who was sentenced by court-martial to be discharged. News
of the great fire in Charleston. Rumor that the Yankees have given
up the commissioners. Can scarcely credit it as yet. Yankeedom can
hardly have fallen so low. No reply to my telegram to Mr. Yancey
yet.
	Sunday, January 12.Dispatched telegram to Yancey or Fearn, in
Paris. The news that Messrs. Mason and Slidell have been given up
seems to be confirmed. The diplomatic tomfoolery of notifying the
Yankee Government unofficially that the ultimatum would be withheld
a short time, to give the Yankee Government time to give up the com-
missioners voluntarily, was resorted to. The Yankee consul here gives
a dinner on the occasion. The Cadiz papers comment very unfhvor-
ably upon this backdown, and insist that notwithstanding it is the
duty of the great powers to interpose and put an end to the war. In
the afternoon we got underway and passing through the fleet of ship-
ping, went up to the dock at [La] Carraca, some 8 miles east of the
city. The harbor is perfect, the water deep, and the buildings extensive.
The pilot who brought me up says lie is the man to run me out by the
enemy when I am ready; that he was in~New Orleans forty years ago,
-	and remained a year in Louisiana, where he learued to speak the lan

Page 736

736 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

guage, which he has not yet entirely forgotten. Sent the powder and
loaded shells to the magazine. Pilots name, Antonio Bueno.
	Monday, January 13.At abont 10 oclock the dockyard people came
on board of us, and at 10:30 we were safely docked, and at noon the
dock was pumped dry. We suffered very little damage from running
ashore at Maranham; we indented a small place under the forefoot
and knocked off only a small part of our false keel~ instead of the whole
of it, as we supposed. We are now knocking away bulkheads and
removing magazine and shell room to get at the shaft. At 1 p. m. called
officially upon the naval commandant, the segundo, and returned him
my thanks for the handsome maniier in which he had docked my ship.
I spoke of the backdown of the Yankees, which he asserted would
make them lose caste in Europe. The great fire at Charleston was
alluded to by him, whereupon I remarked to him that Europe could see
froni this incident (the work of incendiaries, prompted and paid no
doubt by the enemy) the barbarous nature of the war which was being
waged upon us, and told him that we were in fact fighting the battles of
Spain as well as our own, for if the barbarians of the North succeeded in
overrunning the South (which, however, I pronounced an impossibility)
and destroying our slave property. in their wild fanaticism and
increasing madness they would next make war upon Cuba and Puerto
Rico. He replied that this war could not continue munch longer; there
were people and territory enough in North America to make two great
governments, and Europe would no doubt soon interpose. Treated
with great civility and kindness.
	Tuesday, January 14.Had an interview to-day with the naval com-
mandant, who explained to me the orders he had received from time
Government in relation to my ship, and which were to put upon her
only the indispensable repairs, without essential alterations. I expressed
myself satisfied with this; told him I knew the solicitude of his Govern-
ment to avoid complications, and that so far as depended upon me he
might rely that I would permit nothing to be done which would involve
it in any way. Proceeding with the necessary repairs. Seven thou-
sand workmen, many of them convicts, are employed in this yard.
They have in dock, receiving her copper, a heavy steam frigate con-
structed here, and another still larger on the stocks. Immense quau.
tities of timber are in the docks, and though the water is salt, it is not
attacked by the worm, the ebb and flow of the tide preventing it.
Timber which has been forty years in these docks is perfectly sound.
Five of my men deserted yesterday. They are all foreignera, I am glad
to say. The commandant has promised to put the police on the scent,
but I have no expectation that [I] shall get theum.
	Wednesday, January 15.Having had the plank replaced in the bilge,
and recoppered and overhauled the propeller, we were let out of dock
at lp. m. These repairs were done with a very bad grace by the Spanish
officials, who seemed in a great hurry to get rid of us, lest the affair ot
our being docked should compromise them, but this I suppose was due
to official timidity and not to any want of good feeling, as the coin-
mandant of the yard expressed to me his regret at not being able to
put inc in complete repairs, and personally offered to be of any service
to me in his power. Our engine not being ready for use, the captain-
general sent a small steamer to tow me to Cadiz, where we anchored
at about 4p. m. Whilst lying in the dock a stampede took place among
my crew, nine of theni having deserted. TWO were brought back, but
the rest escaped. Some of these men had behaved themselves very
well, but none of them of course had any attachment ~o the flag, no

Page 737

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	737

being natives or, indeed, citizens at all, and, sailor-like, they had gotten
tired and wanted a change. Some, no doubt, shrank from the arduous
and perilous nature of the service in which we were engaged. They
took refuge with the Yankee consul and it was useless to ask to have
them given np. The enemy is certainly good at burning cities by means
of ni~gro incendiaries, and at enticing away our seamen. Another lad
ran away from a boat this evening. Have directed that no boat leave
time ship without one officer and that the officer be armed and ordered
to shoot any man who attempts to desert.
	Thursday, January 1G.First lieutenant and engineer on shore, look-
ing to the repairs of the ship and for an anchor. At 9 p. m. the aid-
dc-camp of the military governor came on board, bringing a pilot with
him, with a peremptory order for me to go to sea. ii replied in writing,
stating the repairs that my ship yet needed and that 1 was waiting for
funds to repair, coal my ship, etc.
	Friday, January 17.Before I had turned out this morning the
governors aid again came on board, stating that the order was made
peremptory that I should go to sea in six hours, or I should be forced.
I called in person on the governor, a bull-headed, stupid official, and
endeavored to make him understand how I was situated, but it seemed
impossible. He promised me, however, to send a dispatch to Madrid
to the effect that I had no coal, was awaiting funds to purchase the
same, etc., but added that if he received no dispatch in the six hours he
would require me to depart. I returned on board and gave the neces-
sary orders to get ready for sea. At 4 p. in., whilst I was weighing my
anchor, the generals aid came alongside and said to me that the
Madrid Government had consented to let inc remnain twenty-four [forty-
eight] hours; that a dispatch was being written to me on the subject, to
which the general desired I would reply in writing. I told the officer
that if his Government had politely acceded to my request, permitting
me to remain until my funds arrived, I would have appreciated it, but
that being restricted to forty-eight hours I declined to avail myself of the
privilege aimd should go to sea, and that the general need not trouble
himself to send me the written dispatch, and I had no other reply to
make. I got underway in a few minutes afterwards, and as I was
passing out a boat was seen pulliimg in great haste toward me, one of
the crew holding up a letter in his hand. I did not stop to receive it.
I felt too indignant at the manner in which I had been treated to be
very civil. We passed outside of the harbor a little before summset, and
held on to the light until midnight, when we steamed for the Strait of
Gibraltar.
	AS~aturday, January 18.Morning cloudy and threatening a change of
weather. Nearly calm, with a smooth sea. We entered the Strait of
Gibraltar at about 5 a. in., passing the Tarifa light, and with the bold
shores of both Africa and Europe in plain sight in the bright moon-
lightbright notwithstanding the passing clouds. We made the
Gibraltar light about daylight and saw at the same time a number of
sails. We gave chase to two barks that looked American, which they
proved to be, and which we captured. The first was the bark Neapoli-
tan, of Kingston, Mass., from Messina to Boston, laden with fruit and
50 tons of sulphur. The whole cargo was stated by the master in his
deposition to belong to the Baring Brothers, consigned to their agent
in Bostona falsehood, no doubt. Without stopping to look into the
bona fides of this claim of neutral owneiship, it was enough that the
sulphur was contraband, and that the fruit belonged to the same owner.
-	1 destroyed both ship and cargo. No papers as to the latter were pra-
123A.----4

Page 738

738 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS~OONFEDERATE

duced, etc. The second vessel was also a bark, the investigator, of
Searsport, Me. She being laden with iron ore, the property of neutrals,
Englishmen, I released her on ransom bond. She was bound from Gar-
rucha, in Spain, to Newport, Wales. One-fourth of this vessel was
owned in South Carolina. Share of the South Carolina owner was
omitted from the ransom bond. Amount of bond, $15,000, less one-
fourth. Having burned the Neapolitan, I steamed in for Gibraltar at
2:30p.m. Blowing fresh from the K.W., and making slow progress.
Passed under Europa Point at about dusk and stood in and anchored
in the bay at about 7:30 p. m. Boarded in a few minutes by a boat
from an English frigate, with an offer of service. Sent a boat along-
side the health ship.
	AS~unday, January 19.We were informed early this morning that we
had pratique. A number of English officers and citizens came on board
of us. At 10 I called on board the frigate which had sent the boat
on board of us last night, but was informed that the captain (who was
absent) was not the commanding officer present, and that the latter
lived on shore. At 2p. m. I landed at the arsenal and called upon the
commanding naval officer, who received me very politely. I asked the
loan of an anchor, having but one, and the captain promised to supply
me with one,if there should be no objection on the part of the law
officer of the Crown. Walked from the captains little oasis, scooped
out, as it were, from the surface of the rock, with a nice garden plot
and trees and shrubbery, etc.. down into the town, and called on Lieu-
tenant-General Sir William J. Codrington, K. C. B., the governor, an
agreeable type of an English gentleman, of about 50 to 55 years of age.
The governor tendered me the facilities of the market, etc., and in the
course of his conversation said he should object to my making Gibraltar
a station at which to lie at an anchor for the purpose of sallying out
into the strait and seizing my prey. I told him tliat this had been set-
tled as contrary to law by his own distinguished judge, Sir William
Scott, sixty years ago, and that he might rely upon my taking no step
whatever violative of the neutrality of England so long as I remained
in her port, etc. The garrison is about 7,000 strong, and it being Sun-
day, the parade ground and the streets were thronged with gay uniforms.
Spain, with her hereditary jealousy and suspiciousness of character, is
very formal and strict as to her intercourse with the rock. The IDuke
of Beaufort visited us to-day.
	Monday, January 20.Ship reported as having dragged her anchor.
Ordered steam got up and the berth shifted. Ran in nearer to the
eastern shore, into 4 fathoms water and where it was smoother.
	Tuesday, January 21.To-day the governors secretary, Colonel
Fremantle, came on board to return my visit on the part of the gov-
ernor, and to read to me by the latters direction a memorandum of
the conversation which had passed between us on Sunday. The points
noted were, first, that we had agreed that I should receive all neces-
sary facilities for the repair (from private sources) and supply of my
ship, contraband of war excepted, and second, that I would not make
Gibraltar a station at which to lie at anchor and sally out upon my
enemy. I assented to the correctness of the governors memorandum.
Ordered the fires to be kept up so that we could have steam in ten or
fifteen minutes in case the ship should drag her only anchor. The first
lieutenant and paymaster on shore making arrangements for the pur-
chase of an anchor and chain. The house of Peacock &#38; Co. refused to
supply us because it would affect their Yankee custom. They made
arrangements with another party. The town of Gibraltar, from th

Page 739

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	739

fact that the houses are built on the side of the rock, and stand one
al)ove the other, presents the beautiful spectacle every night of a city
illuminated. Colonel Fremantle politely invited me to visit the vari-
ous batteries, etc.
	Wednesday, January 22.Received on board an anchor and chain
and permitted the fires to go down. Received a letter from Captain
Warden presenting a question of international law, to which I assented,
to wit, that vessels should have twenty-four hours start.
	Thursday, January 23.Clear and pleasant. Moored ship. Visited
by Captain Warden, the senior naval officer. Received a letter from
Hon. Mr. Yancey; does not believe the blockade will be raised for three
months.
	Friday, January 24.Invited to dine with the One hundreth, or Can-
adian Regiment. Some of the officers went. Captain Palmer, of the
Iroquois, has been relieved by De Camp.
	Saturday, January 25.Received the following dispatch (telegraphic)
from London: Do not repair. Important particulars by letter, so do
not leave port. Signed, North, We hear a rumor that the Nash-
ville has been sold.
	Sunday, January 26.At 10 went on s~iore to the Catholic church.
Major-General Sir John Inglis, bart., the hero of Lucknow, of the Eimg-
lish army, governor of Corfu, having arrived on his way to the lonian
Islands, visited us to-day to see our ship, which he was kind enough to
say had become quite distingui~hed.
	Monday, January 27.The English mail steamer from Southampton
arrived. Received from her a Times of the 20th, from which we learn
that England had protested against the barbarity of blocking up the
harbor of Charleston by sinking a stone fleet.
	Tuesday, January 28.Preparing the ship for sea, surveying boilers
and machinery, setting up rigging, etc., and awaiting very patiently
news fiom London.
	Wednesday, January 29.Visited the shore and went to the military
library and reading room where I found the principal London journals.
Reported that the English Government will consult Parliament about
recognizing us.
	Thursday, January 30.Visited, in company with Colonel Fre-
mantle, the famous fortifications of Gibraltar, passing through the
famous galleries (three tiers, one above another on the north end of the
rock). These are huge tunnels extending from a third to one-half a
mile, with embrasures from space to space for cannon, the solid rock
forming the casemates. From these galleries we emerged out upon a
narrow footway cut [out] of the rock, and stood perpendicularly over
the sea, breaking at our feet, and had a fine view of the northeast face
of the rock, rising in a magnificent mass some fifteen hundred feet.
From this point a tower called the Queen of Spains Chair was pointed
out to me on the height opposite to the northward, the legend connected
with which is that during one of the sieges, 1752, the Queen of Spain
came to this eminence to witness the assault and capture of the place,
and vowed that she would not descend therefrom until the flag of Spamu
should waive from the rock. The assault failed and the Queen, in per-
formance of her vow, refused to descend until the governor of Gibral-
tar, hearing of the predicament of her Majesty, sent her word that he
would at a given hour hoist the Spanish ensign that she might descend,
which was done and the Queen was rescued from Ler predicament with.
out breaking her vow. It requires a regiment to garrison the rock.
Colonel Fremantle told me that the Spanish consul, whom he pointe

Page 740

740 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

out to me as we passed the Alameda, had stated that I was a Spaniard,
or at least that my father wasa native of Catalonia; that I spoke the
Catalan as well as English, and that my name was a common one in
that province.
	~3unday, February 2.Went on shore to church at 10 a. m. and walked
in the Alameda, and then to the library, where I saw news to the 15th
January from New York. Everything in statu quo, except the sailing
of the fleet down the river for New Orleans. Received letters from
North, informing me that as my ship was nuseaworthy Mr. Yancey
had determined to send me the new one built at Liverpool, if I desired
it.	I prepared for transmission the following dispatch:
Do not send her. Can come for her. Particulars by mail.

	Dispatch not sent, but letter written to North.
	Monday, February 3.Sent on shore for some clothing for the crew,
which had arrived from Southampton. Received the following dispatch
from Mr. Mason:
LONDON, February ~.
	Yours, with drafts, received and acted on. Can draw on house in Liverpool for
$16,000. Get ready for sea without delay or waiting further advice, asby recent Gov-
ernment order you must leave port on six days notice. Letters will explain fully.

	Tuesday, February 4.A French line-of-battle ship with 1,100 troops
on board, bound to Mexico, came in with loss of jib boom from collision.
Getting ready for sea.
	Wednesday, February 5.Ready for sea, except a supply of coal, and
this I can not obtain until it is ascertained on shore thatmy drafts will be
paid. Mr. Joyce came off to let us know that my drafts would be cashed.
Sent the engineer in citizen [clothing] and in Mr. Joyces boat to look
at some coal in a hulk. Later in the day Mr. Joyce sent me word that
he could not purchase any coal in the port, there being a combination
against us, and that in an English port! Sent the first lieutenant to
the governor to represent this state of facts to him, and to ask a supply
from the public stores. He replied that he had no coal under his con-
trol; that it belonged to the naval officer, but that he did not think it
could be supplied. Expressed his astonishment at the combination of
the merchants, and expressed himself in a very friendly way.
	Thursday, February 6.Sent the first lieutenant and paymaster on
shore again to endeavor to make a purchase of coal, authorizing~ from
one to two dollars more per ton to be paid if necessary to bribe the
independent English merchants.
	Friday, February 7.I was visited by a Spanish lieutenant, who
informed me that he came by direction of the Spanish naval commander
at Algeciras to say to me that the U. S. consul had complained to the
Spanish Government that the Sumter had violated the neutrality of
Spain by capturing the bark Neapolitan within a mile and a half of
Ceuta, on the Morocco coast, and that the Government had given him
(the admiral) orders to see that both belligerents in the war should
respect Spanish neutrality. I stated to him in reply that any question
which that capture might present was a question between our two gov-
ernn~ents, and that I did not recognize the right of the Spanish admiral
to investigate the matter. To this the lieutenant assented. I then said
that I would take pleasure in showing him, for the information of the
admiral, however, that the truth had not been represented to his Gov-
ernment by the U. S. consul. I then called my clerk and showed him
the deposition of the master of the captured vessel, in which it was
stated that the capture was made within 5 miles of Gibraltar! The
officer seemed astonished and pleased, and expressed his satisfaction

Page 741

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	741

	Saturday, February 8.Early this norning the British frigate Warrior
came in and anchored near us. Sent a boat on board to make the usual
complimentary call. Awaiting the arrival of a vessel with coal, coii-
signed to Mr. Joyce, who promises to supply us. My coxswain ran off
to-day, and I was pulled off by a drunken crew.
	Sunday, February 9.Eleven of my vagabonds still on shore; some
of these we learn have gone to the American consul and claimed his
protection. This official has been seducing them off by an emissary.
Wrote to the governor, charging this upon him, and wrote also to Cap-
tain Warden asking to be supplied with coal from the Government
dockyard.
	Tuesday, February 11.Five men in confinement; the devil seems to
get into my crew. II shall have to tighten the reins a little.
	Wednesday, February 12.Visited the shore and called on the gov-
ernor to have a talk with him on the subject of my deserters. He took
the ground that in the absence of treaty stipulation he could not deliver
a fugitive unwilling to be returned. Whilst I was with him the Tusca-
rora was announced by the telegraph. This ship came in and anchored
near us at about 12, meridian, disguised, with her main yards down so
as to resemble the merchant steamers! I saw Captain Warden on shore
also. He informed me that the question of my being coaled by the
dockyard had heen referred to London by telegraph.
	Friday, February 14.At meridian the Tusearora got underway and
stood over to Algeciras.
	Saturday, February 15.Anniversary of the day of my resignation
from the Navy of the United States, and what an eventful year it has
been! Under pretense of saving the Union the Northern States have
beemi making a frantic and barbarous war upon thirteen States and
9,000,000 of people, in face, too, of the following words of Madison:

If there be a principle that ought not to be questioned within the United States,
it is that every nation has the right to abolish an old government and establish a
new one. This principle is not only recorded in every public archive, written in
every American heart, and seale4 with the blood of a host of American martyrs, but
it is the only lawful tenure by which the United States hold their existence as a
nation. (Letters of Helvidius, No. 3.)

	And then what flood gates of private misery have been raised by this
war, overwhelming families without number in utter ruin and desola-
tion! Awful will be the retribution upon the Yankee cabinet and
nation. The British Parliament met on the 6th, and we have in the papers
to-day the address of the Queen and the speeches of Lords Palmerston
and Derby, the latter the leader of the opposition in the Lords. From
the general tone of all these papers, we will not be acknowledged at
present. They say the quarrel is no business of theirs, and we must
fight it out. Astute Great Britain; she sees that we are able to fight
it out, and that her darling object will be accomplished without the ex-
penditure of blood or money! This is only national nature, selfishness.
	Monday, February 17.Visited the Warrior. The governor and
suite and a number of naval and other officers, civilians and ladies,
visited her by appointment at the same time. The Warrior is a marvel
of modern naval architecture, and for the first experiment may be
pronounced a success. She is a monstrous floating impregnable
fortress, and will work a thorough revolution in shipbuilding. Wooden
ships, as battle ships, .nnst go out of use. With this single ship I could
destroy the entire Yankee fleet blockading our coast, and this is the
best illustration I could give of the necessity of the revolution in ship
-	building I speak of. The British Government has declined to suppl

Page 742

742 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

me with coal from the dockyard an I must make arrangements to get
it from Cadiz. The London, ship-of-the-line (steamer), arrived.
	Wednesday, February 19.Called on Captain Warden and had a
conversation with him on the subject of our blockade by the Tuscarora.
Called his attention to the prevention of signals, the Tuscarora coin-
municating with Gibraltar by boats, and gave notice that if the Tusca-
rora came in 1 should claim precedence of departure, etc. Sent Pay-
master Myers to Cadiz for coal.
	Friday, February 21.The newspapers state that there are seven
Yankee ships in pursuit of usfour steamers and three sail ships.
Three of the steamersviz, the Mystic, Mohican, and Dacotakwere at
Teneriffe on the 11th January. A report has reached us that our pay-
master and ex-Consul Tunstall are in prison in Tangier. Received a
letter from Captain Warden informing me that the governor had pro-
hibited all vessels in the harbor from making signals and had prohib-
ited the !Luscarora from communicating with the harbor by boats, so
long as she remained in Spanish waters, etc.
	Saturday, Feburary 22.The report is confirmed of the illegal
imprisonment in Tangier of Paymaster Myers and Mr. Tunstall. To-day
the new Government of the Confederate States is organized in Rich-
mond, the provisional government having lasted just one year. Hav-
ing gotten rid of Plymouth Rock~ we have at length established a
stable government on the American contineiit.
	Sunday, February 23.The master of the English steamer Atlantic
from Liverpool having offered to coal me yesterday, we got np steam
this morning for the purpose of going alongside of him, when the
scoundrel came on board with another sharper from the shore, and
insisted that I should pay him 50 per cent advance on the market rates,
or $12 per ton. I declined to accede to the extortion. A pressure of
12 pounds of steam caused our boilers to give way again. Wrote to
the governor, asking his good offices for the release of Mr. Myers and
Mr. Tunstall. Demanded their release also of the Morocco Govern-
inent, sending my demand through Mr. Hay, the resident British
chargd at Tangier. We hear of the arrival of the enemys ship mo at
Cadiz.
	Monday, February 24.A board of survey to-day condemned the
boilers, and so the poor old Sumter is to be laid up. Well, we have
done the country some service, having cost the United States at least
$1 ,000,000 in one way or another. Another enemys ship arrived.
	Tuesday, February 25.Received letters from Mr. Hay and the gov-
ernor on the subject of our prisoners. They wish us well, but can not
interfere! Prudent Englishmen.
	Friday, February 28.We learn that Mr. Myers has been given up by
the Moorish Government to one of the United States vessels of war in
this bay. There was an uprising of the foreign population on the occa-
sion, and an attempt to rescne the prisoners would have been made but
their various consnls, with Mr. Drummond-Hay at their head, advised
them to disperse and let the matter take its course. There were, besides,
some 2,000 Moorish troops in the place. The mo sent armed men on
shore to receive the prisoners. It is a singular coincidence that at
almost the commencement of their history the old United States had a
quarrel with these barbarians, though of Algiers.
	Saturday, March 1.The enemys sloop mo went to sea last night
with Mr. Myers and Mr. Tunstall on board.
	Wednesday, March 5.The telegraph reports to the London papers
that it is I who was captured at Tangier in place of Mr. Myers

Page 743

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	743

	Saturday, March 8.This morning the vessel which came in last
night at Aigeciras and made signals with the Tuscarora was discovered
to be a United States screw steamer of war. In the afternoon she
came over to Gibraltar and anchored at a short distance from us, between
us and the rock. It is ascertained that she is the Kearsarge, one of the
new sioops.
	Sunday, March 9.The enemys steamer Kearsarge still anchored near
us. At 3:30 p. m. she got underway and left the harbor for Algeciras.
The Tangier consul was on board the Kearsarge.
	Monday, March 10.The enemys steamer Kearsarge went to sea this
morning from Algeciras, and the Tuscarora came over on this side and
anchored. At 8: 30 p. in. she returned to Algeciras. We learn that
another enemys steamer is at Cadiz.
	Tuesday, March 11.We are much depressed by the news of our defeat
at Fort iDonelson, on the Cumberland River, though doubtless the
accounts are much exaggerated.
	Wednesday, March 12.The enemys steamer Kearsarge came into the
harbor and remained under steam for an hour or two without anchor-
ing, when she went into Algeciras.
	Thursday, March 13.The enemys sailing sloop mo came into Alge-
ciras and anchored this evening. We learn that she put Mr. Myers
and Mr. Tunstall on board the brig Harvest Home, bound for Boston.
	Friday, March 14.Bay of Gibraltar. Received a letter from Mr.
Mason, our commissioner in London, acknowledging the receipt of my
letters reporting to him the inefficient condition of my ship. He advises
me to remain by her, with my officers and crew, until I can hear from
the Secretary of the Navy, so as to occupy the attention of as many of
the enemys cruisers as possible. There are now three of them in Alge-
ciras, viz, the Kearsarge, the Tuscarora, and the mo. There is dull
prospect before us for the next two or three months to be detained inac-
tive in a foreign port, away from the stirring scenes that are taking
place in our beloved country, away from both our friends and enemies.
Europe just now seems to be looking on in cold apathy at our death-and-
litP struggle.
	Tuesday, March 25.The enerny~s steamers, the Kearsarge and Tus-
caroi-a, still remain at their anchors in Algeciras.
	Sunday, March 30.Wrote to Mr. Mason again to-day enclosing him
a request from the wardroom officers to lay the ship up. Mustered the
remnant of my crew, now amounting to no more than forty-six.
	Tuesday, April 1.The Kearsarge went out this evening.
	Wednesday, April 2.The Kearsarge cruising off the harbor this
morning. We have the details of the naval engagement at the mouth
of the James River, in which the Merrimack destroyed the frigates Gum-
berland and Congress and two gunboats. Our falling back from Manas-
sas seems to have been conducted in an orderly manner, and is regarded
as a commendable piece of strategy.
	Thursday, April 3.The naval action at the mouth of the James
River is creating great excitement in Europe, as being the first trial in
actual warfare of ironclad ships.
	Monday, April 7.Received a telegram from Mr. Mason ordering me to
lay the Sumter up and to permit the officers and such of the crew as pre.
fer it to return to the Confederate States. In the evening I assembled
the wardroom officers in my cabin, and took the opinion of each, seri-
atim, on the subject. They advised unanimously that the step be taken;
I decided accordingly.
	Wednesday, April 9.Discharged and sent off nearly all the remain

Page 744

744 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

ing men. Yisited by Captain Ward, of the English steamer Styx.
Some of the forward officeis and assistant engineers departed in a
steamer for Liverpool. I sent for each of them and took leave of them
as I delivered them their orders. Sad work.
	Friday, April 11.Received a letter from the governor enciosiim t a
deposition made by George A. Whipple to the fact that the Sumter had
received coal on board. This villain soleinimly peijnred himself He is
a native of Massachusetts, and deserted from this ship. We learii
this evening that the steamer for Southampton is expected to-night,
and some of the officers have gone on shore to secure our passages.
This looks like moving in earnest, and all is excitement.



List of ve58e18 captured by the C. S. S. Sumter, 1861 62.

	Date.	Place where captured.


1861.
July 3 Near Isle of Pines    
4 5. F. of Isle of Pines....
	4	do             

5 4 leagues off Cienfuegos -
5
6
6
6
25

27
 do             
5 miles off Cienfuegos ...
 do            
 do...          
N. E. of La Gunyra    

9 miles Puerto Cabello..
	Name of ship.	Where belonging.	How disposed ot~ etc.
Golden Rocket.... Bangor. Nile     
	cuba	Maine         
	Machas	do          
	Ben Dunning	do          
Albert Adams....
Naiad         
Louisa Kilham....
West Wind     
Abby Bradford
Massachusetts....
New York      
Massachusetts....
Rhode Island   
New York      
	Jos. Maxwell	Pennsylvania   
Sept. 25 Lat. 60 20, long. 420 24. Jos. Park	Massachusetts....
Oct. 27 Lat. 170 54, long. 560 30. D. Trowbridge.... Connecticut    
Nov. 25 Lat.18030, long.580 40. Moutmorenci Bath, Me       
(ship).
Dec.


1862.
Jan. 18
18
	26	Lat. 200 27, long. 570 15. Arcade (schooner) Portland, Me   
	1	Lat. 29~ 10, long. 5(0 22. vigilant (ship).... Bath, Me       
	8	Lat.30057,loiig.51049. Eben Dodge New Bedford,
		             (bark). Mass.
Strait of Gibraltar	Neapolitan (bark) Kingston, Mass...
	do	Investigator Searsport, Me
(bark).
Burned.
Sent to Cienfuegos, island
of Cuba. (Retaken from
prize crew.)
Sent to Cienfuegos, island
of Cuba.
Sent to Cienfuegos, island
of Cuba. (Released by
captain-general of
Cuba.)
Do.
Do.
Do.
Do.
Sent to New Orleans.
(Recaptured by eucuiy.)
5ent to Cienfuegos, isln;;d
of Cuba. (Released by
captain-general of
Cuba.)
Burned.
Do.
Released under ransom
bond for $20,000, she
having a neutial cargo
on board.
Burned.
Do.
Burned. This ~-essel was
a whaler, and had 22
prisoners on board.
Burned.
Released; neutral cargo;
released on ransom
bond.
Total captured, 18; number burned, 7.


Vessels overhauled.

Date.
Class.
1861.
July 3.... Brig Spanish
3....	Ship American
4....	Brig American
4...  Brig American
5... Bri American.
	5	Brig Anierican
6...~ Brig Amencan *
6....	Bark American
6....	Bark American 0
* Captured.
Date.
Class.
1861.
July 25.... Schooner, American.
	27....	Bark, American.
Aug. 7.... Brig, Dutch.
	19....	French steamer of war Vulture.
Sept.25.... Brig, Americant
Oct. 5.... Brig, English.
	24....	Brig, French.
	25....	Ship, Prussian.
27.... I Schooner, American.
Burned

Page 745

	OPERATIONS OF THE C~UISEUSCONFEDERATE.	745

Veseela overhauledContinued.

	Date.	Class.	Date.	Class.
	1861.  		1861.
	Oct. 27....	Brigantine, British.	Nov. 26....	Schooner, British.
	30....	Brig, Danish.	26....	Schooner, American.
	Nov. 2....	Brigantine, British.	Dec. 3....	Ship, American. I
	2....	Brigantine, British.	8....	Bark, American. I
	3...	Steamer of war, British.	22....	Bark, French.
	5..	Brigantine, British.	28....	Bark, British.
	5..	Brig, French.	30....	2 ships, Dntch.
	5..	Ship, British.	30....	2 br.rks, 5 brigs, British.
	7... 	Schooner, British. 	30....	1 ship, 1 brig, French.
	7....	Bark, British.	30....	1 brig, Swedish.
	7....	Brig, French.	30....	Bark, Prnssian.
	8....	Brigantine, British.	30....	Brig, Hamburg.
	24....	Bark, French.
	24....	Brig, Swedish.	1862.
	25....	Brigantine, British.	Jan. 2....	Brig, French.
	25....	Ship, Alnerlcan.*	3....	Brig, Spanish.
	26....	Bark, Spanish.	18....	Bark, American.
	26....	Brig, Spanish.	18....	American bark, released.
Total, 60.
	* Captnred.	I Burned.


Cruise of the C. S. S. Nashville, October 26, 1861, to February 28, 1862.*

Detailed report of Lieutenant Pegram, C. S. Navy.

C.	S. S. NASHVILLE,
Beaufort, N. C., March 10, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that in obedience to yonr instruc-
tions, dated September 27, 1861, I assumed command of the steamer
Nashville, then lying at Charleston, S. C.
	From the time that I arrived at Charleston I informed myself by
frequent reconnoissances of the exact position of the enemys blockad-
ing squadron, and when Messrs. Mason and Slidell declined to proceed
to England in the Nashville, being directed to carry out the remainder
of my instructions, I awaited a favorable opportunity for running the
blockade: This opportunity appeared to have arisen on the 26th of
October, and on the night of that day, having again carefully recon-
noitered the position of the enemy and placed boats on the bar for my
guidance, I left Charleston Harbor. One of the boats placed upon the
bar, through some unforeseen circumstances, however, drifted from its
l)lace, aiid the Nashville struck rather heavily upon a reef:, from which
she was got off without injury. It had been my intention to run out
before the rising of the moon, but, as a consequence of the detention
caused by running aground, the moon had already risen above th~
horizon as we were crossing the bar, enabling us to clearly perceive
the enemys vessels, while the Nashville, lying in the shadow thrown by
the land, was completely hidden from hostile observation. Having
thus baffled the vigilance of the blockading fleet, I shaped our course
for the Bermuda Islands, which we reached on the 30th of October. At
Bermuda I obtained a full supply of coal, and the Fingal, Captain Bul-
loch, C. S. Navy, arriving before our departure, I was able to furnish
that vessel with the coal that she required. Mr. Macon, the Savannah
pilot, was then transferred by me to the Fingal, and I also placed at
the disposal of Captain Bulloch the services of any of my officers whom
he might need.
	On the 5th of November we left Bermuda, and in order to elude pur.
* At the end of this cruise the Nashville was sold to private parties

Page 746

746 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

suit took a track across the ocean but little frequented by vessels.
During the greater part of the passage we met with strong head winds,
the wheelhouses, guards, and a portion of the hurricane deck and bul-
warks being washed away. At 9 oclock on the morning of the 19th
November a sail was sighted standing toward us, which proved to be
the clipper ship Harvey Birch, Captain M. Nelson, from llavre to New
York, in ballast. When within hailing distance, I hoisted the Confed-
erate flag and demanded the surreider of the vessel as a prize to the
Nashville, which demand was instantly complied with. I then ordered
the captain to come on board with his ships papers, and after a careful
examination of these, one of the officers of the Nashville went on board
of the Harvey Birch, and af~r transferring the officers and crew (thirty-
one in number) on board the Nashville, with their personal effects, set
the Harvey Birch on fire. Before she was lost to our sight her masts
had gone by the board and she had burned to the waters edge. I then
continned my course, and on the 21st November anchored off the port
of Southampton, the officers and crew of the Harvey Birch being then
liberated and permitted to go on shore.
	Immediately upon my arrival at Southampton i communicated, as
instructed, with Lieutenant North, C. S. Navy, and the Hon. William
L. Yancey, and apprised them of your instructions, having previously
shown these to Captain Bulloch, C. S. Navy, at Bermuda. I then ten-
dered the Hon. William L. Yancey a passage to the Confederate States
in the Nashville, and as in consequence of the seizure of the Confed-
erate commissioners, Messrs. Mason and Slidell, there then appeared
to be a great probability of an early rupture between England and the
United States, I determined to await the result.
	In the meanwhile I upon examination found that the Nashville
required thorough overhauling, and she was taken accordingly into the
dry dock at Southampton on the 5th December. There I was allowed
by the admiralty agent to have the ship placed in the condition in
which she was when we left Charleston, but I was not permitted iii any
way to alter or strengthen her, the British cabinet having determined
to maintain a strict neutrality, in accordance with the tenor of the
Queens proclamation. This same plea precluded me from obtaining
aiiy arms or ammunition, and the Nashville being a Government vessel
it would not have been seen with satisfaction had I endeavored to pro-
cure surreptitiously that which was openly denied.
	The entire confidence that I reposed in Lieutenant C. M. Fauntleroy
as an officer of ability and discretion induced me to undertake the
responsibility of detaching him from the Nashville at Southampton,
and of placing him in a more responsible position, connected with the
interests of the Confederacy, than that which he had occupied. This
will, I hope, meet with your approval.
	Soon after leaving Charleston it became evident that traitors were
amongst us, and this was clearly proved by an attempt which was
made at Southampton to fire the ship at midnight. The person who
attempted to perpetrate this diabolical deed was not discovered, but
as several desertions took place shortly afterwards it is most probable
that he did not act alone.
	While the Nashville was lying at Southampton the Federal corvette
Tusearora, Captain Craven, arrived and was moored off the port, with
the openly avowed intention of waiting for the egress of the Nashville.
This attempt by one belligerent vessel to blockade another in a neutral
port caused great indignation in England, and in order to allay the
irritation of public feeling, both vessels were ordered by the author

Page 747

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUJSERSCONFEDERATE.	747

ties to leave within a specified time. The whole of the correspondence
that passed upon this subject I had already placed in the hands of your
Department, and I also enclose a copy of the same herewith.
	Messrs. Mason and Slidell having arrived in England, and having pre-
viouslycompleted the repairs of the ship, taken in coal, and filled up the
vacancies in the crew, I again made the Hon. William L. Yancey an
offer of a passage in the Nashville to the Confederate States, and upon
his declining to accompany us, I notified the Lords of the Admiralty
that I was prepared to proceed to sea forthwith. Thereupon a notifi-
cation was made to the captain of the Tuscarora that his vessel could
not leave nntil the expiration of twenty-four hours after the departure
of the Nashville, and to prevent any possible breach of faith, the Eng-
lish frigate ~3hannon, with steam up and guns shotted, lay alongside
of the Federal vessel. Thus, on the 3d February, the Nashville left
Southampton. And I must here record my high sense of the courtesy
and kindness that I met with at the hands of all with whom I was
brought into contact daring my stay in England.
	From the time of our departure until the 10th of February the
weather was favorable, but then a heavy gale was encountered. Dur-
ing this gale, which lasted several days, the injection pipe of the
engine was halfway cracked, and the prompt and efficient manner in
which this was remedied by Mr. J. Hood, the chief engineer, together
with the great care exercised by him in his important department
throughout the entire voyage, are worthy of the highest commeiida-
tion.
	Upon leaving England I had determined to make direct course for
one of our Southern ports, but finding that the Nashville could not
weather in safety continued northerly gales, and that far more coal
had been consumed than was anticipated, I shaped our course for Ber-
muda, anchoring in the harbor of St. George on the 20th of February.
Whilst receiving on board a supply of coal, I learned that the owner
and master of the Confederate schoonerPearl, which had run the block-
ade from Beaufort, N. C., and had run aground on the northern part
of the Island of Bermuda, was then at Hamilton, and I determined on
seeking an interview with the person in charge. Before, however, I
could carry out this resolution, Captain J. Pender, the owner of thePearl,
came on board the Nashville, and in the most patriotic and praiseworthy
manner volunteered his services and those of his master, Mr. J. Bever-
idge, a practiced pilot, to pilot the Nashville into Beaufort, N. C., speak.
ing with the utmost confidence of our ability to run into that port.
The manner in which the proposal was made induced me to accept
Captain Penders offer, and I can not now speak too highly, both person.
ally and officially, of the advice and assistance that he and Mr. Bev-
eridge thus afforded me.
	On the 24th February the Nashville left Bermuda, and I shaped our
course for Beaufort, N. C. At dawn on the morning of the 26th Feb-
ruary a schooner was seen on our port bow, which proved to be the
Robert Gilfillan, Captain Smith, from Philadelphia to Haiti, with an
assorted cargo of provisions. Steaming towards her, I hoisted the
American flag, the schooner doing the same. I then sent an officer on
board and obtained from the captain all the information he possessed,
when, upon a given signal from time officer, I displayed our flag and
demanded the surrender of the schooner. This was at once complied
with, and the sea being too rough to allow of any transfer of cargo, the
captain and crew, seven in number, were, with their personal effects,
brought on board the Nashville, the Robert Wifillan being then set o

Page 748

748 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATTh

fire and burned. After this we met with some heavy weather, but
after crossing the Gulf Stream the weather was favorable.
	At daylight on the morning of the 28th February we found our-
selves near to the harbor of Beaufort, N. C., and the first thing seen
was the enemys ship blockading the port. I stood directly toward
her, hoisting the American flag and the ships private number. This
was replied to by the enemy. As soon, however, as I had passed her
I ordered the United States flag to be hauled down and hoisted the
Confederate flag at the foremast head and at the peak, while my pen-
nant was run up at the main. When the United States flag was hauled
down on board the Nashville the Federal vessels captain endeavored
to bring her broadside to bear, but before the ship could be swung we
were out of range of his gnns. In spite of this the enemy fired twenty-
one shots, but without the slightest effect. I answered the enemys
salute by firing one gun, finding it useless to waste more powder. At
shortly after 7 a. m. we had passed the lines of Fort Macon and were
safely moored alongside of the railroad wharf at Morehead City.
	The foregoing is as brief a report as is practicable of the whole cir-
cumstances connected with the passage of the C. S. S. Nashville, under
my command, and I sincerely trust that my actions will meet with the
approbation of the Department.
	In conclusion, allow inc to express the very high opinion that I hold
of the services rendered the Confederacy by Lieutenant J. W. Bennett,
the executive officer of the Nashville, and to mention that I feel per-
sonally under many obligations to him for his valuable counsel and
assistance in maintaining the discipline and efficiency of the ship. I
have also to name, in terms of the highest commendation, Lieutenant
W. C. Whittle, Mr. It. Taylor, assistant paymaster, Dr. J. L. Auchun
[Auchrim], acting surgeon, and Mr. J. H. Ingraham, acting sailing
master, and beg that you will kindly place them under the favorable
consideration of the Department. Allow me also to request that the
appointments of the whole of the acting midshipmen may be confirmed,
with one exception, concerning which 1 shall present a special report.
I have the pleasure to report that Mr. Sawyer, the acting boatswain,
has, by his unexceptional conduct and seamanlike bearing, gained the
favorable consideration of every officer on board, and that by his
energy and industry he has rendered great assistance in adding to the
efficiency of the vessel. Permit me to call him under your notice, and
to beg that the Department will be pleased to confirm his appointment.
Mr. J. Evans, the Charleston pilot, on the passage from England kept
regular watch and fulfilled his duties to my satisfaction. I also wish
to call specially your attention to the sacrifices made by Mr. Frank
Dawson, a young Englishman of high refinement and education, who
left family, friends, and every tie to espouse our cause, and who, not
to be put off by any difficulties thrown in his way, insisted upon serv-
ing under our flag, performing throughout the passage from England
the most menial duties of an ordinary seaman in a manner that gained
for him the admiration of every officer on board. I am now most
desirous of retaining the services of Mr. Frank Dawson as my clerk,
unless the Department can find some more appropriate position in
which to place him.
	Mr. L. Hill, who shipped with us as a seaman, soon attracted my
notice by his zeal and attention, and this induced me to give him the
appointment of master-at-arms. The duties of this post he has filled to
my complete satisfaction, and I trust that the Department will be
pleased to give him an appointment more suited to his meritssuch

Page 749

	OFERATIONB OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERAT~E.	749

for instance, as that of masters mate. I can not omit to mention that
Mr. iRamsou [Ransom], the acting boatswains mate, and the seamen
generally, have given me great satisfaction. Mr. J. Hood, the chief
engineer, reports most favorably on the merits of John Spidell, thir4
assistant engineer, and John Seeley, water tender, whom I recommend
with pleasure to your notice. The firemen and coal-passers have, with
but few exceptions, discharged their duties very efficiently.
I have the honor to be, sir, most respectfully, your obedient servant,
	iR. B. PEGRAM,
	Hon. S. R. MALLORY,	Lieutenant, Commanding.
Secretary of the Navy, Richmond, Va.

[Enclosure No. 1.]
	ADMIRALTY OFFICE,
Southampton, January 11, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acquaint you that I have received orders
with respect to [the] ship under your cotnmand and the Tascarora, to
detain one vessel until the other has had twenty-four hours start.
I am, sir, your most obedient servant,
CH~s.[G.] PATE
Additional Captain of 1!. 1111. 5. Victory,
and Senior Officer of Port of Southampton.
The Commander C. S. S. NASHVILLE.

[Enclosure No. 2.]
C. S. S. NASHVILLE,
Southampton, January 11, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
to-days date, intimating to me that in the event of the Tuscarora pro-
ceeding to sea, the ship nuder my command is not to leave until twenty-
four hours shall have elapsed after the Tuscaroras departure, and I
beg to assure you that I shall rigidly conform to the instructions of
your Government in this respect, and you may depend that nothing
whatever shall be done on my part to infringe the neutraLity of this
port.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully,
	R. B. PEGRAM,
	Captain PATEY,	Lieutenant, Commanding.
Senior Naval Officer, Southampton.

[Enclosure No. 3.]
	ADMIRALTY OFFICE,
Southampton, January 26, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to state that I am directed to obtain from you,
as well as from the commander of the Tuscarora, a written promise
that you will not leave your present position without giving me twenty-
four hours2 notice of your intention to depart.
I am, sir, your most obedient servant,
CHAS. [G.] PATEY,
Additional Captain of H. 2W. 5. Victory,
and Senior Otficer at Southamptoii
Lieutenant Commanding R. B. PEGRAM,
C.	S. S. Nashville, Southampton

Page 750

750 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

[Enclosure No. 4.]

C.	S. S. NASHVILLE,
Southampton, January 26, 1862.
	SIu:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communi-
cation of this date. I promise you that the Nashville shall not be
moved from her present J)osition without giving you twenty-four hours
notice of her intended departure.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
B.	B. PEGRAM,
Lieutenant, Commanding.
	CHAS. G. PATEY,
Additional Captain if. ill. S. Victory,
and Senior Officer at Southampton.

[Enclosure No. 5.]

ADMIRALTY OFFICE,
Southampton, January 27, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you that I have received from the
commander of the Tuscarora a notification that it is his intention to
proceed to sea to-morrow (Tuesday), at 11 oclock a. m. You can not,
therefore, I beg to remind you, be permitted to leave this port in the
Nashville until twenty-four hours shall have elapsed from the time of
the departure of the Tuscarora.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
CHAS. G. PATEY,
Additional Captain H. M. S. Victory,
and Senior Naval Officer Present.
	Lieutenant Commanding B. B. PEGRAM,
C.	S. S. Nashville.

[Enclosure No. 6.]

ADMIRALTY OFFICE,

Southampton, January 27, 18623 p. m.
	SIR:	In accordance with instructions received by me, I am to call
upon you to leave the Southampton waters in the Nashville, under your
command, and that you proceed to sea on Wednesday next, the 29th
instant, at 12 oclock, at noon, provided that an interval of twenty-four
hours shall have elapsed after the departure to sea of the Tuscarora.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
CHAS. G. PATEY.
	Lieutenant Commanding B. B. PEGRAM,
C.	S. S. Nashville.

[Enclosure No. 7.]

LONDON, January 27, 1862.

	M~ LORD DUKE: By letter from Captain Patey, of the admiralty,
dated to-day, I am ordered to put to sea within twenty-four honrs
after the departure of the U. S. sloop of war Tuscarora.
	It has now been more than two months since I arrived with my
vessel, the Nashville, at Southampton, and during that time it has been
my constant endeavor to pay the strictest regard to that neutrality
which has been so solemnly proclaimed by her Majestys Government.
	My ship not being originally designed to cross the Atlantic, much
less as a war vessel, I have not been able to strengthen her sufficientl

Page 751

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.
751

to sustain the two light 6-pounder guns which had been put on board
of her, and to leave within the fatal delay specified in the above order
would be to subject me to inevitable capture. So obvious is this,
indeed, that I am driven to the conclusion that there has been some
strange misconception in regard to this sudden summons, and this, in
connection with the very brief time allotted me, urges me to address
your grace in person, and to submit the enclosed copies of the commu-
nications I have received from Captain Patey.
	Your grace can not fail to observe, from these orders, th at my move-
inents are made subordinate to those of the Tuscarorct, and that the
commander of that vessel is absolutely empowered to force me into a
collision with him upon his own terms.
	If it is indeed true that I am bidden to abandon the asylum whose
hospitable shelter I have not abused, and that I am thus with my weak
ship and slender crew to be placed at the mercy of a powerful man-of-
war with which it would be madness to attempt to cope, I have no
alternative left me but to obey this peremptory order, but I here enter
my solemn protest against it in the name of common humanity, and of
that Government which I have the honor to represent.
	I have the honor to be, my lord duke, very respectfully, your
obedient servant,
R.	B. PEGRAM,
Gomrnaimder, C. ~. ~. Nashville.
	His grace the DUKE OF SOMERSET, K. G.

[Enclosure No. 8.]

SOUTHAMPTON, January 10, 1862.
	SIR: I beg to state for your information that yesterday, at 8 p. in., I
was visiting the south side of the docks and near where your ship is
lying when I discovered a party of strangers on the pier, near the mid-
dle gramning dock, and upon demanding to know who theywere, an offi-
cer of the party informed me that they belonged to the Tuscarora, and
were stationed there by their captains orders to watch the steamship
Nashville, and if she attempted to get underway to immediately make
a signal to the Tuscarora. The party consisted of two officers and three
men.
	1 informed them that they had no right or authority to be here for such
pnrpose and without permission, and at once ordered them to leave the
premises, which they did. I afterwards saw the consul and informed
him I had done so, and should not allow any of the Tusearoras crew
to remain on these premises at night.
	These circumstances being of so much importance, I have thought it
my duty to communicate the same to the commanding officer of this
port, Captain Patey, B. N., and I think it only fair to make the same
known to you.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
	PHILIP HEDGES,
	Lieutenant Commanding B. B. PEGRAM,	superintendent.
C.	k~. ~. Nashville, &#38; mutharnptou Dock.

[Enclosure No. 9.]
C.	S. S. NASHVILLE,
Southampton, November 25, 1861.
	Mv DEAR SIR: I am at a loss now to express the deep sense of my
obligations to you for your most kind and unexpected letter of this date

Page 752

752 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATF~.

Yonr offer is so much the more to be appreciated when I think of the
still doubtful position of England in regard to our nationality, and
when so few are willing to risk aught for a people in their efforts for
liberty, and that, too, against a government heretofore ranking among
the great powers of the world.
	It shall not be forgotten by myself nor by my Government, if exer-
tions of mine can avail. Permit me in all gratitude to say that although
not in need of funds at this time, should circuinstairces demand, I will
with much pleasure avail myself of your offer.
	As my presence will be required on board my ship during the greater
part of my stay, a visit in person will, I regret to say, be out of my
power. I return the check book by Captain Ruse, who will also do me
the favor to hand you this letter.
	Most truly, yours,	R. B. PEGRAM,

Lieutenant Commanding, C. S. Navy.
S.	ISAAC, Esq.,
London.


List of Officers of the C. S. S. Nashville, 1861.
Lieutenant commanding, R. B. Pegram,	   gram, virginia; Clarence Cary, Vir-
 C. S. N., Virginia.	  ginia; W. P. Hamilton, South Caro-
First lieutenant and executive officer,	   lina; W. B. Sinclair, Virginia; I. S.
 C. M. Fanutleroy, Virginia.	  Bufloch, Georgia.
Second lieutenant, J. W. Bennett, Mary-	Captains clerk, Edward Hassell, South
 land.	 Carolina.
Third lieutenant, W. C. Whittle, Vir-	Boatswain, Francis Sawyer.
 ginia.	Pilots, James Evans, South Carolina;
Master, John H. Ingraham, South Caro-	   Thomas Jones, South Carolina; John
 lina.	   Macon, Georgia.
Assistant paymaster, Richard Taylor,	Chief engineer, James Hood, Canada.
 Virginia.	First assistant engineer, William Smith,
Assistant surgeon, John L. Auchrim,	 South Carolina.
 South Carolina.	Second assistant engineer, John C. Mur-
Midshipmen, W. R. Dalton, Mississippi;	 ray, South Carolina.
   F. M. Thoinas, South Carolina; H. G.	Third assistant engineer, John Spidell,
   McClintoc, Alabama; James W. Fe-	 Alabama.




Letter from Hon. 3. K. Mason, Confederate commissioner at London, to the Secretary of State
of the Confederate States, regarding the attitude of the British Government towards C. S. S.
Nashville, in the port of Southampton, England.
	FENTONS HOTEL, LONDON,
January 30, 1862.
	DEAR SIR: We arrived in London yesterday evening, and I could
address you but a short private note by a ship to sail to-day for a Con-
federate port. I have had but one day in London and that engrossed
by visitors, embracing many of our countrymen here, with many English
gentlemen who sympathize with us. This letter, which can not contain
much, isto go by the Nashville, and if Captain Pegram makes good his
voyage he will tell you the complications that have arisen in regard to
his presence in an English port; it will suffice for me to say that the
Federal ship Tuscarora being at Southampton to watch him, this Gov-
eminent ordered both to leave the port, brought about by misconduct
in regard to the espionage of the commander of the Tuscarora, the
Nashville to depart, as I understand it, twenty-four hours (afterward

Page 752A


Page 752B

CONFEDERATE STATES STEAMER FLORIDA

Page 753

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.
753
extended to forty-eight) after the departure of the Tuscarora. Captain
Pegram, who consulted with me, in obeying this apparently harsh order,
has acted in everything in a manner becoming his position. I have not
the means of making myself fully acquainted with the orders of the
British Government in this regard, they being partly written and partly
through verbal communication. So far as I have understood them,
however, I have no reason to believe that the Admiralty intended inci-
vility or discourtesy to the Nashville, but under the necessity of ~endiiig
away the Tuscarora it was thonght prudent, and to preserve neutral-
ity, to extend the same measnre to the Nashville.
	In my short note of last night I could tell you only of the favorable
impressions we received everywhere, on our voyage, of sympathy
from the British naval officers. Now, with but a days experience in
London, my impressions decidedly are that although the ministry may
hang back in regard to the blockade and recognition through the
Queens speech at the opening of Parliament next week, the popular
voice through the House of Commons will demand both. But few mem-
bers, it is said, are yet in town, but there is a prevalent desire mani-
fested to be well informed as to American affairs, and I have said to
those who have called on me that I should be happy to see and con-
verse with any gentleman who desired such information. My views, of
course, upon such short acquaintance here, must be crude, but I shall
be disappointed if the Parliament does not insist on definite action by
the ministry, inuring to the relief of their people as well as ours. By
the next opportunity I shall hope to write you more formally and at
large. Please send the enclosed to Mrs. Mason.
Very respectfully and truly, yours,
	Hon. H. M. T. HUNTER,	J. M. MASON.
Secretary of State.


Cruise of the C. S. S. Florida.

Report of Commander Bulloch, C. S. Navy, of the readiness of the steamer Manassas (C. S. S.
Florida) for sailing from Liverpool.

LIVERPOOL, ilfareh 21, 1862.
	Sn~: On the 14th instant, in a necessarily short letter, I informed
you of the safe arrival of myself and party in England, and will now
report more in detail upon the matters which relate to my especial
duties here.
	Although arrangements have been made by which correspondence
with the Confederate States can be carried on with more freedom than
formerly, yet as there is always a probability of letters going astray~
such as treat of public affairs must obviously be worded with caution
and names of persons and places be suppressed. I will endeavor how-
ever, to be as graphic and minute as prudence and brevity will admit,
and trust you will find no difficulty in understanding the real intent
and meaning of my various reports. The ~ is ready t~or sea, with
crew, provisions, and all boatswains, carpenters, and sailinakers stores
necessary for several months on board, and I will dispatch her on the
day after to-morrow to a West India port, the exact locality of which

The Mana88as; formerly the Oreto, permanently the Florida

Page 754

754 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

will be reported to you in a subsequent letter, as well as from the ship
as soon after her arrival as possible. It is hoped that she will be able
to communicate immediately upon arrival with the officer you have
already detailed for duty between the Southern coast and the Bahamas,
and for this purpose I will send in her the very trusty and prudent
officer you appointed especially to assist me in such affairs as require
me to keep in the background. In spite of every ruse, it has beeim
found impossible to place any munitions of war on board the ]Ilianasscts.
She has been twice inspected by the custom-house authorities, in com-
pliance with specific orders from the foreign office, to see that nothing
contraband of war has been placed in her, and notice has been given
that any attempt to smuggle such articles on board would at once be
followed by her seizure. The hammock nettings, ports, and general
appearance of the ship t~ufficiently indicate the ultimate object of her
construction, but there is nothing to compromise the pacific character
she must necessarily assume for this voyage. Registered as an English
ship, in the name of Englishmen, commanded by an Englishman, with
a regular official number, and her tonnage marked upon the combings of
the main hatch under the direction of the board of trade, she seems to
be perfectly secure against capture or even interference, until an attempt
be made to arm her or change the flag, and this, it appears to me now,
can only be effected at sea.
	The late unseemly conduct of the captain of the Federal ship Tusca.
rora has caused the British admiralty to issue very stringent orders
in reference to the treatment of United States and Confederate vessels
in English ports, whether home or colonial. Under these orders not
only is the fitting out of ships for either Government forbidden, but no
vessel of war will be permitted to take in more coal than the quantity
necessary for her to reach the nearest port of her own country, after
which she can not replenish at any British port until the expiration of
three months. The restrictions in the ports of other European nations
are not much less stringent, and although these restrictions are
expressed in language of fairness to both narties and are indiscriin-
inately enforced, it is evident that their very impartiality makes them
far more burdensome to the Confederate than to the Federal Govern-
ment. The armament intended for the ]Jlanassas was one 7-inch rifled
gun and one 68-pounder solid-shot gun on traversing carriages, and
four 42-cwt. 32-pounders in broadside. I have not been able to get the
latter of these off as yet, but have shipped four 7-inch rifled guns,
Blakely pattern, with traversing carriages and slides, with the pivot
bolts and brass sweeps for the deck complete, and 400 solid shot and
600 shells all loaded and fused. These will go direct to Nassau; will
arrive as soon probably as the Manassas, and are so stored as to be
promptly delivered.
	When in Savannah I learned that some cases intended for the Navy
had been by mistake delivered to the Army. I will repeat here, there-
fore, that all shipments for the Navy Department have been and will

continue to be marked N. ID. , although to distinguish particular arti-
cles other marks may be added. The engineer of the ]tlianassas has
a scale drawing which is marked so as to show precisely how the sweeps
are to be laid down on the deck for the l)ivot guns, and understands
how to direct the operation. The crew of the illanassas are of course
ignorant of her ultimate destination, but the principal officers are I
think willing to take their chances in her anywhere, provided thei

Page 755

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS~CONFEDERATE.	755

pay can be secured. I will write by the Mana8sas a letter to the Con-
federate officer commanding the Gecile, enclosing a list of everything on
board the Manassas, and will also send a duplicate of this. I respect-
fully suggest that officers be sent to take charge of the ]Jilianassas as
soon as possible, as a vessel of her description can not lie long in the
West Indies without exciting notice and being called upon to make
explanations of her objects and intentions. The ship Ko. 2 is in an
advanced state, and there are reasons for thinking she can be got to sea
in a more efficient condition than the MianassasI mean in reference to
her real character. For this reason as well as because I can not finish
other business of pressing importance for some weeks, I will await
her completion, and will endeavor to arrange her movements in accord-
ance with your instructions of November 30, 1861.
	I feel called upon to urge upon you the necessity of making without
delay arrangements for the regular payment of wages to the crews that
may be shipped for either or both of these ships. With the assurance
of regular pay and the promise of prize money or ultimate reward from
Government for good service and captures at sea, I am sure good crews
can be got, but without some security on these points I am equally
confident that men could not be retained in the service. You will
remember that the money sent to England for my use is all to be dis-
posed of in operations specified in your various instructions, and an
additional sum will be necessary for the current expenses of a cruising
ship, a large and most important item of which will be pay. American
ships are fast being put under the British flag, and besides, as it would
be impossible to send in prizes, and ships rarely have specie on board,
all their business being now carried on by means of drafts or letters of
credit, a Confederate cruiser could only destroy property and will not
therefore be self-supporting.
	I have already consulted with those who are properly informed as to
the plans, etc., of an iron-plated ship, and hope in a few days to be able
to give you a report on the subject. The order for 100 tons of cannon
powder will be filled as soon as possible, and will be shipped in lots as
opportunity can be found. The manner in which this letter must go
to you warns me that it is getting too lengthy. I will make up as far
as possible by the frequency of my reports for their forced brevity. I
find myself in a delicate and trying position here, but the prayers of
many righteous men are daily ascending to heaven for the success of
our cause, and II confidently expect that these prayers will be somehow
or other acknowledged in providential aid to my humble undertakings.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAMES D. BULLOCH.
	lion. S. R. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy.


Letter from Commander Bulloch, C. S. Navy, to Lieutenant Maffitt, C. S. Navy, announcing the
immediate departure of the steamer Florida from Liverpool for Nassau, New Providence.


LIVERPOOL, March 21, 1862.
	SiR: Day after to-morrow I dispatch for Nassau a gun vessel, built
in England, under contract with me, for the Confederate Navy. In all
sailing and steaming equipment she is very complete, but I have been
forced to dispense with all outfit suited to her true character. It has
been with much difficulty, and only by the most cautious management,
that she has escaped seizure or indefinite detention here, and I sen

Page 756

756 OPERATIONS OF THE ORUISERSCONFEDERATE.

her as she is, the first regularly built war vessel for our Navy, to your
care. Mr. Low, master, C. S. Navy, goes in her to take charge of the
public property on board, and to place her in the hands of any Confed-
erate officer who may be in the West Indies on her arrival. I hope it may
fall to your lot to command her,for I know of no officer whose tact
and management could so well overcome the difficulties of equipping
her or who could make better use of her when in cruising order.
	It has beeu impossible to get the regular battery intended for her on
board, but I have sent out four 7-inch rifled guns, with all ue4~j~ssary
equipments, in the steamship Bahama, bound to Nassau, and Mr. Low
will give you all particulars as to her probable time of arrival, and will
also hand you a list of everything on board the gun vessel, as well as
an invoice of the shipment by the Bahama. Another ship will be ready
in about twomonths,and Iwill take the sea in her myself; by some
means or other, although I perceive many difficulties looming in the
future.
	The country seems to be hard pressed, but I hope no one at home
despairs of the final result. Two small ships can do but little in the
way of materially turning the tide of war, but we can do something to
illustrate the spirit and energy of our people, and, if we can arrange to
meet, may yet repay upon the enemy some of the injuries his vastly
superior force alone has enabled him to inflict upon the States of the
Confederacy. Write me as soon as you receive this, and give me full
information of the state of affairs on the other side of the Atlantic, and
if you get to sea in the little cruiser I send out, appoint a rendezvous.
I am too much pressed for time and have too lately arrived to write
more fully now, but will communicate with you again soon.
	I am, etc.,	JAMES D. BULLOCH.

J.	N. MAFFITT,
C. S. Navy.



Instructions of Commander Bulloch, C. S. Navy, to Acting Naster Low, C. S. Navy, relative to
the passage of steamer Florida from Liverpool to Nassau, New Providence.

LIvERPOOL, March 21, 1862.
	SIR: You will take passage in the steam vessel Plorida,* now about
to sail for the Bahamas. This vessel, for reasons already explained to
you, is sent out under the British flag and in command of an English
captain, and it is of the utmost importance that nothing shall be done
to compromise her character as a neutral vessel until she is safely deliv-
ered to an officer of the Confederate Navy or some agent especially
appointed by the Confederate Navy Department. You are hereby
charged with the carh of all public property on board, a duplicate list of
which is herewith furnished you, and the captain has been instructed
after arrival at the first port of destination to be governed by your
orders as to the movements and disposal of the ship.
	As soon as you arrive at the Bahamas you will communicate with
Captaiii J. N. Maffitt, C. S. Navy, whom you will hear of through
Messrs. Adderly &#38; Co., of Nassau, and you will forward the accom-
panying dispatch to the honorable Secretary of the Navy, reporting

-	The Florida8 dockyard name was Orelo; the name first assigned to her by the
Navy Department was Mana8sxs8, by which she is mentioned in some of the corre-
spondence

Page 757

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	757

also your arrival to him in writing. If Captain Maffitt or any other
commissioned officer of the C. S. Navy is at Nassau, give him all the
information you have in reference to the ship; hand him the invoice
of stores, with the enclosed letter addressed to Captain Maffitt, and
make the best of your way back to this country as quickly as possible,
as I have duties of great importance for you here. Should you not
find Captain Maffitt in Nassau, put yourself in communication, through
Mr. Adderly, with Major Charles J. Helm or Mr. Louis ileyliger, one
of whom will doubtless be in Nassau. Consult with those gentlemen
as to the propriety of keeping the ship in Nassau, and remain with her
until you hear from the Navy Department. You must be careful to
appear always as a private gentleman traveling on his own affairs, and
let your intercourse with all persons known to be connected with the
Confederate Government be very guarded and cautious. With the
gentlemen mentioned above you can of course speak freely, but let
your interviews be private, so as to escape notice as much as possible.
	It is impossible to give you instructions to cover every emergency.
I have had experience of your discretioii and judgment, and must rely
upon them now. You will be furnished with money to pay your per-
sonal expenses and to meet any small demands against the ship. As
the Florida has an extra quantity of coal on board and the captain has
been ordered to make the passage mostly under canvas, it is presumed
no material outlay will be required for some time. Should there be abso-
lute need of additional funds, you will apply to Messrs. Adderly &#38; Co., or
to either of the aforementioned gentlemen, pledging the Navy Depart-
inent through me for the amount. You will, however, under all cir-
cumstances, practice the most rigid economy. You will keep a careful
memorandum of the ships performances, under steam and sail, noting
her steering, working, stability, and all particulars of the speed under
different circumstances, and the degree of pitching and rolling under
various conditions of sea and weather. Furnish information on these
points to the officer who may relieve you, and keep a copy for me.
	Among the papers are drawings to show how the sweeps and trav-
erses for the pivot guns are to be put down. These, with the guns and
all necessary equipments, are on board the steamship Bahama, now
about to sail for Nassau. If the officer who will take charge on the
part of the Navy Department needs your services for a short time, you
are at liberty to remain with him, but unless otherwise directed by the
honorable Secretary of the Navy himself, after he has received the
enclosed letter, you will return to England at latest by the first day of
June, as your services will then be indispensable to me.
	Wishing you a safe and speedy passage and a satisfactory consum-
mation of the purposes of your voyage,
I am, etc.,
JA]~n~s D. BULLOCH.
Master JOHN Low,
C.	S. Navy.


Letter from Acting Master Low, (1. S. Navy, in charge of C. S. S. Florida, to Commander hi-
loch, C. S. Navy, of the safe arrival of that vessel at Nassau, New Providence.


NASSAU, May 1, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report to you the safe arrival at this port
of the C. S. S. Florida, on the morning of the 28th of April, after a
passage of thirty-seven days, which, in compliance with your instru

Page 758

758 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

tions, has been made principally under canvas. We wished to be as
economical as possible in regard to the consumption of fuel, but were
rather unfortunate in having light winds and frequent calms, more
especially in the trades. During the latter we thought it prudent to
steam, thinking that if we made too long a passage the steamship
Bahama would be here some time before us. The amount of coal, as
you are aware, was 175 tons, including Welsh and English. Our con-
sumption of the former was 18 tons per day and of the latter 24. We
have now on board good two days~ coal, so I trust you will find, after
taking into consideration the weather and our reasons for not making
a long passage, that we have been as economical as possible, not only
as regards fuel, but with everything on board.
	I took particular notice of the vessel as regards her speed under
steam and canvas, and am happy to report most favorably of her in
all respects. Our average steaming is 9~ knots; her sailing averages,
with the wind abeam or quarterly, so that the fore and aft canvas will
draw,12 knots. The above is the average; I now give you what I have
seen her do during the passage: Under steam, with smooth water, 1O~
knots, and under canvas alone, with quartering wind, so that we could
carry main topgallant studding sail, l3~ good.
	As regards stability, I do not think there is a stronger vessel of her
class afloat; when pitching you could not see her work in the least, not
so much as to crack the pitch in the waterway planks, where I believe
a vessel pitching is as likely to show weakness as anywhere else.
	Jam, etc.,	JOHN Low.

	Commander J. D. BULLOCH.



Letter from Lieutenant Maffitt, C. S. Navy, to the Secretary of War of the Confederate States,
announcing his assumption of command of C. 5. 5. Manassas.

NASSAU, NEW PROVIDENCE, May 21, 1862.

	SIR: On arriving at this port I found the Confederate gunboat
Manassas consigned to me by Commander J. B. Bulloch, C. S. Navy.
	I have judiciously dispatched arms, etc., in all the steamers, and
personally assumed command of the Manassas, which vessel I hope to
have ready for service soon, and my whole soul will be devoted to giv-
ing eclat to our cause and annoyance to the enemy. My difficulties
are great, my ambition greater.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	N. MAFFITT,
	C. ~. Navy.
Hon. 0-. W. RANDOLPH,
&#38; cretary of War.



Instructions of the Secretary of the Navy of the Confederate States to Lieutenant Xaffitt,
C. S. Navy, appointed to command C. S. S. Florida, relative to a cruise in that vessel

CONFEDERATE STATES OF AMERICA,
Navy Department, Richmond, July 14, 1862.
	SIR:	Your letter of the 13th of June has been received. I feel very
great anxiety about the Florida, and earnestly trnst that you may be
able to get her to sea safely and make a dash with her against th

Page 759

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	759

enemy. The difficulties in your way are serious, I know, and I can
give you no other than general instructions to meet them. Exercise a
sound discretion, and do not hesitate to assume responsibility. You
will cruise at discretion, the Department being unwilling to circum-
scribe your movements in this regard by specific instructions. Should
your judgment at any time hesitate in seeking the solution of any doubt
on that point, it may be aided by the reflection that you are to do the
enemys commerce the greatest injury in the shortest time.
	The strictest regard for the rights of neutrals can not be too sedu-
lously observed, nor should an opportunity be ~lost of cultivating
friendly relations with their naval and merchant service and placing
the true character of the contest in which we are engaged in its proper
light.
	It would be well to purchase, through third parties, in advance, sup-
plies of coal at points at which you may subsequently touch.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
S.	R. MALLORY,
&#38; cretary of the Navy.
Lieutenant Commanding J. K. MAFFITT, C. S. Navy,
Nassau, New Providence.



Report of Lieutenant Maffit, C. S. Navy, appointed to command the C. S. S. Florida (Oreto)
regarding difficulties in getting to sea.

KASSATJ, August 1, 1862.

	SIR:	The case of the Oreto will be decided to-morrow at 30 m. p. m.
[12:30] - It is believed that she will be liberated, in which event I shall
depart for a certain place of rendezvous, where a steamer will join me
with armament and fittings.
	The difficulties are very great; some twelve men-of-war are on the
lookout. Seamen, firemen, and engineers are hard to obtain. I have
no invoice of what has come for her, and we dare not open the boxes in
the bonded warehouse. The steamer has never been in my possession one
moment, as she was seized the day the Bahama arrived. I merely gov-
erned (privately) the movements of the captain up to that period, but
would have gone to sea with her at once, leaving directions for the
Bahama to meet me at the rendevous; unfortunately, there was no coal
in Nassau, nor did any arrive until the day after the Bahama. I men-
tion these circumstances with the hope that the Department will per-
fectly comprehend the trying position I have all along occupied, and
that justice will be done me, if all my efforts and those of our intelligent
and zealous Government agent, Mr. ileyliger, assisted by Mr. Lafitte,
should fail.
	I will have to fit out at sea, with small assistance and ignorance as
to what has been put on board. Nothing has been neglected here to
remedy the original mistakes. Nothing will be left undone on my part
when the vessel is released to give entire satisfaction to the Department
and the country at large.
I am, respectfully, your obedient, etc.,
	[J. N. MAFFITT,
	Hon. S. It. MALLORY,	Lieutenant, C. S. Navy.]
Secretary Navy, Richmond, Va

Page 760

760 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISEBSCONFEDELRATB.

Letter from Lieutenant Xaffitt, C. S~ Navy, commanding C. B~ S. Florida, to Commander Bulloch,
C. S. Navy, of arrival at Cardenas, Cuba, from Nassau, New Providence.

CARDENAS, August 20, 1862.
	M~ DEAR BTJLLOCH: I took on board at sea all my battery, but
many things in the haste and confusion were forgotten, such as ram-
mers, sponges, etc. Had but 2 firemen and 11 men; have run the
gauntlet splendidly, my coast-survey experience being of great service.
Where I went the Federal ships dared not follow, and, here I am, with
prospects of filling up my crew and obtaining what is necessary. The
prize crew committed many acts of robbery, and left the vessel in a ter-
rible plight. * * * I hope to give a good account of myself soon, if
I get the men. I write in great haste. Have Lieutenant Stribling,
good officer; Acting Master Bradford, Acting Midshipmen Bryan, Floyd,
Sinclair, young men of no nautical experience. No doctor, no paymas-
ter. I have now 3 cases of yellow fever; have had 7. Am doing well
in that line. You remember my fondness for doctoring the crew. I
was fortunate enough to avoid any connection with the Oreto until the
day before we gave the Yankees the slip. Semmes was looked upon as
the person ordered to command her, and after he left that Stribling
was to take her to him at a rendezvous.
	* * * This is written in extreme haste,tocatchachancetosend
it to Helm at Havana. Good luck and a Gods blessing.
	Yours, affectionately,	~-. N. MAI~FITT.

	Commander J. D. BULLOCH.


Letter from Charles 3. Helm, esq., Confederate agent at Havana, to the Secretary of State of
the Confederate States, giving information regarding the C. S. S. Florida (Oreto).

HAvANA, September 3, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you that the Confederate gunboat
Florida (Oreto), commanded by Captain J. N. Maffitt, arrived at Carde-
nas on the 18th ultimo, and anchored some 12 miles from the town.
On the next day Captain Maffitt dispatched his first lieutenant to me
with various requests touching the vessel, all of which I was enabled
to comply with. The captain-general, fearing the Federal gunboats
might attempt to cut the Florida out from her exposed position, several
being reported in the vicinity of Cardenas, intimated a wish that she
be brought to Havana, where he could force our enemy to respect his
neutrality, protect her, and give Captain Maffitt such facilities for
repairs and assistance consistent with his Queens proclamation of
neutrality as would enable the Florida to go to sea. I therefore imme-
diately telegraphed Captain Maffitt to come to this port if in his opinion,
it was safe to do so. By this time, unfortunately, the captain, several
of his officers, and eight of his crew were prostrated by yellow fever,
and it was not possible for him to move. The captain-general then sent
two vessels of war to Cardenas, one of which anchored by the side of
the Florida and rendered her every assistance possible. The surgeon
attended our sick night and day, and the captain was unceasing in his
kind attentions. Mechanics were permitted to come and go without
interruption. One young officer and several seamen died, and when
the captain had so far recovered as to be able to sit up, knowing the
anxiety of General Serrano and his wish that the Florida should be
here instead of Cardenas, I sent a confidential agent to explain fully t

Page 761

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	761

Captain Maffitt the views of this Government and the kind intentions
of the chief officials, when on the night of the 31st he sailed for and
reached Havana on the morning of the 1st instant. The Federal con-
sular agent at Cardenas objected to the sailing of the Florida without
twenty-four hours notice, when Captain Maffitt assured the captain of
the port that he would not interfere with any vessel until after he
sailed from Havana, which would do away with the necessity of the
notice. The captain of the port, not feeling authorized to act, tele-
graphed to Havana for instructions. The reply was, Let her sail; the
word of a Southern gentleman must be taken.
	No seamen could be obtained here, and Captain Maffitt concluded
rather than remain here, there being a great deal of yellow fever, to run
for Mobile, for which port he sailed at 8 oclock on the night of the 1st
instant.
	It is proper to add that the authorities behaved in this instance, as
they have in all others affecting the welfare of our Government, admir-
ably. The captain-general will adhere strictly to his promise to treat
our vessels just as he treats the vessels of our enemy in all things
touching our substantial interest.
	Several vessels, steamers and schooners, have recently sailed from
here for Confederate ports with valuable cargoes, and there is now on
hand here a large amount of such articles as are most needed by our
Government and people, which will soon be sent forward.
	Our recent successes have gratified the Spaniards of Cuba immeas-
urably.
I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant,
CH. J. HELM.
Hon. J. P. BENJAMIN,

Secretary of State, Richmond.



Letter from the Secretary of the Navy of the Confederate States to Lieutenant Maffitt, C. S.
Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, commending him for the manner of his escape into
Mobile Bay.

CONFEDERATE STATES OF AMERICA,
Navy Department, Richmond, October 8, 1862.
	SIR: Your official report* of your arrival at Mobile with the Florida
was duly received, and through Admiral Buchanan I have tendered
the thanks of the Department to yourself, your officers, and crew for
the good service so well and successfully performed.
	The escape of your defenseless vessel from an overwhelming force,
with liberty to choose its ground and mode of attack, was alone due to
the handsome manner in which she was handled, and I do not remem-
ber that the union of thorough professional skill, coolness, and daring
have ever been better exhibited in a naval dash of a single ship.
	I trust that your health will soon enable you to resume the command.
The future movements of your vessel is a subject of interest upon
which you will please give me your views, etc.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
S.	R. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Lieutenant Commanding JOHN N. MAFFITT, C. S. Navy,
Commanding Steamer Florida, Mobile, Ala.
* Not found

Page 762

762 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

Instructions of the Secretary of the Navy of the Confederate States to Lieutenant Maflltt, C.
S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, regarding a cruise of that vessel.

CONFEDERATE STATES OF AMERICA,
Navy Department, Richmond, October 25, 1862.
	SIR: Your letter of the 15th instant has been received, and the gen-
eral outline which y~u give of your designed cruise is approved. Assist-
ant Paymaster Lynch is ordered to report to you, and to him you will
turn over the funds in your hands. A requisitron has been made in
his favor for $35,000 in coin, which with the amount in your hands will
make $50,000, in addition to which he will have a letter of credit for
$30,000.
	The Department does not deem it necessary to give detailed instruc-
tions for your guidance, relying as it does upon your judgment and
discretion for the conduct of your cruise, and believing that your
success will depend entirely upon your freedom of action. The capture
of one or two of the enemys treasure and passenger ships would be a
heavy blow to his credit at home and abroad, far greater than the cap.
ture of an equal value of property in any other form. So long as the
existing blockade of our ports shall exist, any attempt to run prizes into
them will hazard their loss, and you will be governed by this consider-
ation in the disposition of prizes. Should your judgment ever hesitate
in seeking the solution of any difficulty on this point, it may be aided
by the reflection that you are to do the enemys commerce the greatest
injury in the shortest time. Since the AS~umter started upon her cruise
Federal owners of ships and cargoes have adopted the practice gener-
ally of placing them nuder British protection, and this may at times
cause you some embarrassment.
	The strictest regard for the rights of neutrals can not be too sedu-
lously observed, nor should an opportunity be lost of cultivating friendly
relations with their naval and merchant services and of placing the
true character of the contest in which we are engaged in its proper
light.
	A speedy recognition of our Government by the great European
powers is anticipated, and I have no reason to doubt that if you shall
seek their ports you will receive the consideration and treatment due
from neutrals to an officer of a belligerent power with which they desire
to establish close commercial connections.
	The long and hazardous cruise upon which you are embarking, fol-
lowed, as you will be,in every sea by enemies in superior force, together
with your exclusion from our ports, demand a maintenance of thorough
and exact discipline as a matter of vital consequence. Before leaving
Mobile you will endeavor to procnre practical pilots for such portions of
the Bahamas and the West Indies as you may be compelled to visit,
and in all respects you will make your outfits as complete as possible,
the Department wishing that nothing shall be left undone that may
contribute to your success. You will not hesitate to assume responsi-
bility whenever the interests of your country may seem to demand it.
	For the purpose of communicating with your Government you will
proceed as follows: Obtain at Mobile two uniform copies of any small
English lexicon or dictionary, one to be retained by you and the other
to be sent to the Department. Whenever in your letters or dispatches
a word is used which may betray what you may desire to conceal,
instead of using that word write the numbers, in figures within
brackets, of the page where it is to be found, and also the number of the
word on the page, counting from the top. Thus, if you desire to mdi

Page 763

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	763

cate the word prisoner ~ and should find this word on the hundredth
page of the book and the tenth from the top of the page, you would
indicate it thus: [1001 10. In this manner you can use a cipher with-
out the possibility of its detection.
	The Florida will have the houor of making the third naval cruise
under the flag of the Confederate States, and the Department relies
with confidence upon the abilities and conduct of yourself, officers, and
men for its success; and with my earnest wishes for the prosperity of
your cruise and your triumphant return to your country,
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
S.	It. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy.
Lieutenant Commanding JOHN N. MAFFITT, C. S. Navy,
Commanding Steam Sloop Florida, Mobile, Ala.
Delivered October 31, 1862.
FRANKN BUCHANAN,
Admiral, etc.


Extracts from the journal of Lieutenant 3. N. Maffitt, C. 8. Navy, commanding C. S. S
Florida, May 4December 31, 1862.

NASSAU, NEW PROVIDENCE,
ilfay 4, 1862.
	At 11 p. m. Mr. Low, provisional master, C. S. Navy, came to my
room in private and informed me that he had come over in the C. S.
gunboat Oreto, and at the same time handed me a letter from Com-
mander J. D. Bulloch, requesting I would at once assume command and
send Mr. Low back.
	The Oreto had been here some weeks, attracting much observation
and comment. She was in the upper anchorage, and Captain Duguid
was her nominal commander. As the Oreto was in aii equivocal posi-
tion, with no regular Confederate States officer to look out for her inter-
est, I gave up the Nassau and privately assumed the entire control.
	By the Kate, Cambria and Nassau, I wrote to the Secretary of tli~
Navy giving full information as to the Oreto and my position in regard
to her, asking for the command and., if detailed, to be furnished with
experienced lieutenants, a paymaster, engineers, an assistant surgeon,
money, etc. The return boat brought me a letter from the Secretary,
in which he informed me that Commander J. II. North was ordered
and would arrive in Nassau by the British steamer Bahama, bringing
guns, etc.; but that my conduct was approved, and if Commander
INorth did not arrive I then was to consider myself as detailed. Mr. 0.
Bradford, provisional master, and Acting Midshipman Sinclair were
the officers sent to me. The former had passed through all gradations
of business amid different appointments; never content one week over
the other, and with so little ability of any kind that he may well
be termed Jack of all trades and good at none. Midshipman Sin-
clair on his passage saw the ocean for the first time. The Secretary
complacently ordered me to fit out and cruise, as though I controlled a
navy yard, and had engineers, men, etc., at my command.
	Mr. Adams, the American minister in London, had sent out full infor-
mation about the Oreto, and that her guns, etc., would arrive per steamer
Bahama. With all these lights, the presence of the vessel as an
undoubted build for a maim-of war, it was natural to presume that the
American consul would not neglect the interests he represented

Page 764

764 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	The day after the Bahama arrived, on certain colonial authority,
Captain MeKillop, of II. B. M. S. Bull Dog, seized the Oreto as a lawful
prize, based upon the Queens neutrality proclamation. The next day
she was released by advice of Mr. Anderson, the Queens attorney.
In the meantime the Bull Dog departed, having been relieved by the
steamer Greyhound, Captain Hickley, who reseized the Oreto, and in two
days relinquished her. On the next day, in consequence of the repre-
sentation of one Jones (ex-boatswain of the Oreto) having, through the
instigation and bribery of the American consul, made declaration that
the Oreto was a Confederate gunboat, etc., Captain ilickley reseized her
and put the case in the admiralty court for adjudication.
	In the Bahama Lieutenant J. M. Stribling, late of the A3umter, arrived.
He was on his way home to be reunited with his young and beautiful
bride, but on hearing of my situation in regard to officers he promptly
relinquished his orders and volunteered for the Florida.
	About the 20th of July the yellow fever in its worst form commenced
operation. The first victim was my young friend, Lieutenant Brown,
of the Fourth W. I. Regiment; a high-toned little gentleman as ever
lived. As a nurse my services were constantly required at the hotel;
the cases were generally fatal.
	August 7 [2].The court room was crowded at 11.30 a. m. At 12
Judge Lees gave his decision in the Oreto case, and she was free! On
the following day the verdict was recorded, papers made out for any
Confederate port, J. Laurens Read (my stepson), captain! At 11 a.
m. she steamed out of the harbor to outer anchorage, and at 4 p. m. I
went on board with Lieutenant Stribling, Master (Acting Lieutenant)
Bradford, Acting Master Floyd, Midshipman Bryan, Engineers Spi-
dell, Scott, Quinn, and J. Seely, Acting Marine Officer Wyman, Acting
Paymaster Read, Clerk Vogel, amid a few men.
	Lieutenant Stribling returned to take charge of the tender with
arms, stores, etc., and ship such as could be obtained. On the follow-
ing day the Cuyler (Federal gunboat) came and ran all round us. The
[H. B. M. S.] Petrel, commanded bymy friend Watson, immediately went
out and ordered her in the harbor or to go without the marine limits.
That night the Petrel gave me a hawser and we hung on by it, as we
had not men enough to weigh our anchor. At 12 or a little after
dropped quietly down under the shadow of the land until off the
west end of the island, when we steamed to the southward. At 1, fell
in with [the] Prince Albert, schooner, Lieutenant Stribhing, and took her
in tow. At 3 p. m. on the following day anchored 1~ miles W. S. W. of
Green Cay.
	Now commenced one of the most physically exhausting jobs ever
undertaken by naval officers. All hands undressed to the buff and
with the few men we had commenced taking in one 6 and 74 inch
guns, powder, circles, shell and shot, etc. An August sun in the tropics
is no small matter to work in. On the 15th 0. Worrell, wardroom
steward, died and we buried him on Green Cay. Several cases of fever
appear among the crew. At first I thought it but ordinary cases, origi-
natmug from hard work and exposure to the sun, but in twenty hours
the unpalatable fact was impressed upon me that yellow fever was
added to our annoyances. Having no physician on board, that duty
devolved upon me, and nearly my whole time, day and night, was
devoted to the sick. On the 16th of August all the armament and stores
were on board; took the tender in tow and ran to Blossomn Channel, in
which we anchored at sunset.
	On the morning of the 17th got underway, hoisted and cheered th

Page 765

	OPERATIOI~IS OF THE C1WISERSCONFEDERATE.	7435


Confederate flag, and christened the Oreto by her new official cognomen
of Florida, parted with the Prince Albert, and stood to the southward
and westward. The yellow fever by this time had gained complete
ascendency and in our absolute helpless condition were forced to enter
a Cuban port. Moreover, we found that neither beds, quoins, sights
or raminers, and sponges had been sent to us.
	August 18.At 11:30 p. m. passed a Federal cruiser. We were so
close to the reef that he did not see us. At 1:20 a. m. on the 19th
Augnst entered the harbor of Cardenas; one fireman on watch perfectly
exhausted and about four men. Anchored in 4 fathoms. At 9 got
underway, and stood into the inner harbor; communicated with the
authorities, and represented our helpless condition; received permis-
sion, per telegram, from the governor-general to remain as long as it was
necessary.
	On the 20th dispatched Lieutenant Stribling and Mr. Vesterling to
Havana to obtain, through agents, more men and a doctor. The fever
had complete possession of the vessel, but as yet none had provei
fatal, for I watched every case with the most particular care. Twas a
sorrowful sight to see our quarter deck turnea into a complete hospital.
All the men who were able to work we kept fitting side tackles, breach-
ings, etc.
	August 22.My duties as physician have prostrated me considerably;
do not feel well. At 2 p. m. was taken with a slight chill, which I
fancied originated from getting wet in a thunder squall. Took a foot
bath and felt better for a time. At 4, while giving medicine to the
sick, was seized with a heavy chill, pain in the back and loins, dimness
of vision, and disposition to vomit. The painful conviction was forced
upon me that I was boarded by this horrible tropical epidemic. I sent
for Mr. Floyd and Mr. Wyman, and gave full directions in regard to
the duty of the vessel. Ordered a physician sent for, and the sick sent
to the hospital; then took 40 grains of , got into a tub of warm
water mixed with mustard, took several injections, changed under-
clothes and sheets, and by this time was in the embrace of a fierce
fever. Knowing that fever always affected my brain, I did all that I
thonght necessary with promptness, even directing the medicine and
care of the sick for the night.
	From this period until the 29th all was a blank to me, an epoch of
horror and suffering that can not be realized save by those who have
been the recipients of this fell disease. On recovering my first gleam
of sunshine, I found a medical consultation progressing that was not
flattering to my recovery, but Dr. Gilliard, of the Spanish gunboat
Guadalquivir, was somewhat hopeful, and I told him his prognostics
were correct, as I had not time to die. He and Lieutenant Command-
ing , of the Guadalquivir, were very polite and attentive, and [
hope some day to have it in my power to demonstrate my appreciation
of their courtesy.
	The first unpleasant news conveyed to me on becoming quite sensi-
ble was that my dear stepson, Laurens, was seriously ill with fever.
Poor boy! he had set up with me and manifested the most tender
solicitude for my recovery. I was distressed that my debilitated con-
dition prevented persona] attention to his case. Dr. Barrett, of
Georgia, a warm-hearted Irishman, volunteered for the vessel, giv-
ing up an excellent situation in the Government hospital in Havana
in order to demonstrate his devotion to the South in this time of
need.
	August 30.At 6:30 p. m. poor Laurens was taken with black vomit;
at 7 the noble boy went gently to sleep, beloved and regretted by al

Page 766

766 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

who knew him. This blow came like the raven wings of fate, darken-
ing my very soul and nearly producing a relapse. Poor Mr. Seeley
(John), onr third assistant engineer and 3 men, departed this life about
the same honr. Mr. Floyd is down with the fever; also Midshipman
Sinclair. Mr. Wyman is quite sick with the epidemic, but as he was
taken when on shore, Mr. John Cacho, a native of Port Mahon, kindly
took him to his house, where he was attended with so much care that
his case l)roved quite a mild one.
	Mr. Stribling returned, bringing 8 men and 4 firemen- his difficulties,
in consequence of the neutrality law, had been very great. The gov-
ernor-general telegraphed for me to proceed to Havana, as there were
no forts in Cardenas, and a rumor had reached him of an intent on the
part of the Yankees to cut me out. The port was already completely
blockaded in anticipation of my departure.
	August 31.Committed our dead to their mother earth and settled
all bills prior to departing for Havana. Twas whispered about that
we were about leaving, and the American consul dispatched a swift
craft to inform the Fedeyal squadron. At 8 p. m. the Spanish mail
boat (for Havana) left, and when outside was chased by the Federals,
who fired shot and shell at her until she entered the harbor at Matan-
zas; they mistook her for the Florida; consequently, at 9:30 we sailed
and ran the coast along unmolested.
	September 1.At 11:30 a. m. entered the harbor of Havana; a large
concourse of people assembled upon the quay, and our entrance was
attended to by a large and favoring audience. Shufeldt notified the
Yankee fleet of our being in Havana and an assembly took place off
the inorro. Finding that I could not get a crew, as twas the season of
sickness, when sailors did not congregate in this port, and that my
ordnance was defective in arrangement, etc.,,to say nothing of the want
of officers, I reluctantly came to the conclusion that there was nothing
left to me but to force my way into some Confederate port. In fact,
my health was so wretched that I could not well attend to duty, and
had to be lifted on deck when necessity called me. Captain Smith
volunteered to pilot me into Mobile and was assured that but one man-
of-war guarded that harbor; so I settled upon Mobile, and at 9 p. m.
sailed, avoiding the enemys fleet by running some distance close in
shore. The passage was pleasant, but cases of fever continued assail.
ing the new men, but not with its original severity, or perhaps Dr.
Barretts experience and extreme devotion may have had much to do
with its mitigated form.
	September 4.At 3 p. m. made Fort Morgan and three blockaders off
the bar- they at once ran out to receive me. At 4:50 p. m. the can-
nonading commenced upon our helpless craft, for we could not return
their shots for want of men and proper provision for our guns. The
Oneida, Commander Preble, of 10 guns, made an effort to cut us off
but I sheered toward him, and feeling he would be run down he backed,
giving me a momentary advantage. As I ranged ahead of him he
poured out a whole broadside, that swept away hammocks and some
running rigging. One gunboat opened on my port bow, the other on
our port quarter, and the cannonading became rapid and precise.
Having passed the Oneida, gave a starboard helm to bring the gun-
boats in line, and escaped, by this range, the fire of one of them, for
this grouping around me bid fair to send the little Florida to the bottom.
	Hauled down the English flag, and as soon as the signal halliards
could be rerove, ran up the bars and stars

Page 767

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	767

	A shell entered the port quarter but fortunately neither that or the
XJ-inch exploded. Several expended Parrott shells struck the masts
and fell on board. Our boats were much injured and all the standing
rigging (except three shrouds) shot away; our hull well peppered.
Finding that we did not distance the Federals rapidly, sent the men
aloft to loose topsail and topgallant sails, and our sailors responded to
the order with alacrity. As soon as they were seen on the yards, all
the gunboats commenced firing 24-pouiid shrapnel; the standing rig-
ging was shot away as our men came down from aloft; several were
wounded, and the boats, masts, spars, and hulls were cut with thou-
sands of the shrapnel. The sea was smooth, and our helpless condition
gave the enemy confidence and security, which enabled them to coolly
use us as a target. The sails availed us considerably, for a light S. E.
wind had sprung up. I sent all below but the officers and two men at
the wheel.
	As we approached the bar an XJ-inch shell entered on our port beam,
about 9 inches above the water line, passing through coal bunker,
grazing the boiler and entering among the men on the berth deck; by
this shot 4 men were wounded and James Duncans head taken off.
Duncan was captain of the maintop and one of our best men. At dusk
we were under the guns of Fort Morgan. Soon visited by the officers.
Colonel Powell says the scene was brilliant, and he considers it one of
the most dashing feats of the war. Sharkey, captain forecastle, and
Bellups, quartermaster, were at the wheel during the cannonading, and
did well; in truth, everybody acted well their part.
	We were visited by McBlair of the Morgan and Hunter of the Gaines,
their crews cheering as approaching. Anchored off Meirose. On the
5th I went up to Mobile with McBlair, to recruit. Buried our dead.
	Sejptember 6.The admiral sent a small steamer down as a hospital
vessel.
	Monday morning, September 8.At 1 p. m. arrived in the ilforgan;
the admiral went on board the steamer and made a few complimentary
remarks to the crew and then left. On going on board the Florida I
was distressed to find poor Stribling dowii with a serious attack of
fever; had him conveyed to the steamer Areal that Dr. Barrett could
attend him night and day. His mind wandered, and there seemed no
elasticity in his constitution; I think his chances very doubtful.
	[September] 9.Stribling very ill; will not permit anyone to administer
his medicine but me, and I am hardly able to stand. Midshipman Sin.
clair rather worse; case assuming a doubtful phase.
	[September] 1O.Ani quite exhausted with my efforts to aid poor Strib.
hug; he calls for me all the time. Young Sinclair has a favorable turn.
Nothing but sickness. We are quarantined by the authorities and very
properly.
	[September] 11.The same; I now have no hope of poor S.
	[September] 12.As I feared, Stribling breathed his last at 6:30 p. in.,
having never rallied once during his illness. He was a good Christian
and excellent officer. Peace be to his soul.
	September 13.Paid the last honors to our highly esteemed friend
and shipmate, Lieutenant Stribhing. He is buried at Melrose, near Mr.
Stones country seat.
	[September] 20.Passed Assistant Surgeon F. Garretson, C. S. Navy,
reported for duty (his original name was Van Biber). The doctor is
from Virginia, and enjoys a high reputation, not only in but out of his
profession. Cleansed our holds and fumigated the vessel daily.
	[September] 26.Midshipman Sinclair has been under my especia

Page 768

76$ OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

care in the cabin and has benefited so much that he was enabled to
proceed to Richmond on leave.
	[September] 29.Lieutenant Comstock reported for duty, a young
officer of exceeding delicacy of constitution; in fact, unfit for the per-
formance of the requirements of this vessel. * * * Hauled dowii
the quarantine flag and steamed over abreast of Dog River bar.
Received a very complimentary communication from the Navy Depart-
ment, but no hint of promotion.
	On the 9th [October ~?] Lieutenant ID. A. Forrest reported as execu-
tive.
	October 12.At last, after great exertion, I have some mechanics
at work. They all dread the vessel, and desired to await a fever-kill-
ing frost ere coming on board. Slow, slows slow. This fitting out in
an open bay, where so much is to be done, i~ bad business.
	[October] 13.Lieutenant floole, of Alabama, a young gentleman who
was badly wounded in the head at Roanoke Island, reported. Dr.
Barrett returned from leave, and concluded to remain with his family;
good old man.
	[October] 18.Second Assistant Engineer Jackson reported, and amore
unfortunate appointment could not have been made. Third Assistant
Engineer Brown reported.
	[October] 20.Lieutenant Forrest received his detachment.
	[October] 25.Lieutenant C. C. Simms reported and a most excellent
officer he is. The equipments and repairs now commenced with system
and regularity.
	[October] 30.Lieutenant S. W. Averett, an officer of high standing for
his period of service, reported; his frank, manly manner pleases me
much. Crew coming on board in driblets; many rated as seamen who
in the old service would merely pass as very ordinary seamen.
	November 1.Passed Midshipman Walker detached to make room
for Midshipman Dyke, of Florida.
	November 4.Lieutenant C. W. Read, the last lieutenant I personally
applied for, joined; this officer acquired reputation for gunnery, cool-
ness, and determination at the battle of New Orleans. When his com-
mander, T. B. Huger, was fatally wounded he continued to gallantly
fight the McRea until she was riddled and unfit for service. * * *
Passed Assistant Surgeon Grafton reported; he is a pleasant gentle-
man, and enjoys the reputation of being an excellent surgeon.
	November 15.Lieutenant Simms was telegraphed by the Depart-
ment that in consequence of the alarming illness of his wife he was at
liberty to leave. He referred to the admiral, who at once decided that
he must return home, and much to his and my own regret I lost the
service of this experienced and excellent officer. I can not have more
changes, so will ask for Lieutenant Stone and try how Mr. Averett will
get along as executive. Want of experience. Mr. Stone has joined.
He is intelligent and will make an admirable officer.
	December 1.Received the admiral, General Slaughter, Lieutenant
Rainey, Captain McBlair, T. T. Hunter, Colonel Forsyth, Mrs. Le Vert
and daughter, Mrs. Hopkins, Gracie Scott, Mrs. Forsyth, Mrs. Lieu-
tenant Graves, Virginia Hallett, Mrs. Jno. W. Murrell. Entertained
them several hours; exercised at target, and at 3:40 they returned in
the Grescent steamer. Fitting out slowly; our wants can not be
promptly supplied; the ordnance department is as yet in embryo, and
Lieutenant Eggleston has much difficulty in fitting us out, even indif-
ferently. Our tarry has far exceeded my expectations, and all hands
are very restive. Lieutenant Read suffers particularly in this and ha

Page 769

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE
769
become somewhat bilious; every passing squall is to him a fine night
for going out, even though it be of fifty minutes duration only.
	The gentlemen knew nothing of my orders, nor that having formed
plans on consultation with Admiral B., who controls me, I shall abide
by them, notwithstanding all their presumed superior judgment.
	In the winter season N. E. gales, as a rule, are prevalent. They last
several days with a misty sky, and heavy sea upon the bar, both fiwor-
able to the Floridas safe exit, and tis to the interest of the Confeder-
acy that we get out intact, as my orders are to assail their commerce
only, that the mercantile part of the Northern community, who so
earnestly sustain the war by liberal contributions, may not fatten on
its progress, but feel all its misfortunes. As the Alabama and Florida
are the only two cruisers we have j tist now, it would be a perfect
absurdity to tilt against their more than three hundren, for the Federals
would gladly sacrifice fifty armed ships to extinguish the two Con-
federates.
	When a man-of-war is sacrificed tis a national calamity, not individ-
nally felt, but when merchant ships are destroyed on the high seas
individuality suffers, and the shoe then pinches in the right direction.
All tIme merchants of New York and Boston who have by their splendid
traders become princes in wealth and pnft~ with patriotic zeal for the
subjugation of the South, will soon cry with a loud voice, peace,
peace; we are becoming ruined and the country damned!
	I doubt not but that them-c will be much criticism and condemnation
among the restless spirits of the service, who are always finding fault,
yet most faulty themselves. Tis a curse in military as well as naval
life that gossiping is carried to such reprehensible extremes, and as a
general rule it belongs to weak-minded, shallow-pated persons, living
in glass houses, but always throwing stones.
	I am impatient for that N. E. gale. Singular, this winter has been
almost entirely exempt from bad weather, and my tarry has not been a
matter of satisfaction. Everybody but the admiral is impatient; he
seenis to fancy the retention of the Florida, considering her not badly
employed in keeping a large fleet to watch her.
	December 30.l have been summarily detached and Lieutenant Bar-
ney ordered to relieve me in command. The Department expresses
astonishment at the delay of the Florida, but fails to address the
admiral on the subjector seek any explanation. My services (unrequited
as they have been) surely entitle me to a slight consideration and call
for information. The commanding officer was indirectly hit over my
shoulder.
	Fortunately, the President was in Mobile, and Admiral Buchanan
went to him and represented the gross injustice done me; that the Sec-
retary had failed to consult with him, the commanding and responsible
officer, which he should have done, as by so doing he would not have
committed so grave an error or gross an act of injustice. The Presi-
dent telegraphed, and the action of the Department was annulled. My
command was fully endorsed by Mr. Davis.



Abstract from log of C. S. gunboat Florida, August 17, 1862, to 3anuary 15, 1863.

	List of officers.J. N. Maffltt, commanding; J. M. Stribhing, lieuten-
ant; 0. Bradford, acting lieutenant; li. S. Floyd, acting master; J~
Spidell, acting first assistant engineer; J. L. Read, acting assistant
paymaster; C. W. Quinn, acting second assistant engineer;
l2,3A4

Page 770

770 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	acting assistant surgeon; G. D. Bryan, midshipman; G. T.
Sinclair, midshipman; L. Vogel, captains clerk; A. Vesterling, pay-
masters clerk.
	August 17, 1862.Blossom Channel, Bahama Bank. Parted this
morning from the schooner Prince Albert at 8 a. m. and hoisted the
Confederate flag. Latitude, 220 48 N. From meridian to 4 p. m. run-
ning along the banks on a due west course.
	August 19.At 1:35 a. m. came to anchor, Cay Piedras light bear-
ing ThW. by W. At 9:25 steamed np Cardenas Channel. At 1 p. m.
dispatched the cutter to town with Acting Lieutenant Bradford in it
for official calls upon the authorities. Lieutenant Stribling and Mr.
Vesterling went to Havana on duty.
	&#38; ~ptember 1.Arrived at 12 m. in Havana and left at 7~30 for Mobile,
where we arrived after having successfully run the gauntlet of thi ee of
the enemys vessels in broad daylight at fip. m. on the evening of the 4th.
	September 4, 1862, to January 15, 1863.Remained in Mobile Bay fit-
ting ship.



Cruise of the C. S. S. Alabama.

Letter from Commander Bulloch, C. S. Navy, to Hon. 3. K. Mason, C. S. commissioner at
London, regarding the disposition of the officers of the C S. S. Sumter in Liverpool.

10 RuMFORD PLACE, Liverpool, May 3, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
yesterday, and have read a portion of its contents to Messrs. Fraser,
Trenholm &#38; Co., as you desired. These gentlenien say that their ships
are necessarily sailed under the British flag, and the presence on board
of any persons known to have been in the Confederate service would
compromis~ theji character, and in this view of the case they feel
reluctantly compelled to decline giving a passage to any of the Sumters
men.
	Since my return to Liverpool I have made ineffectual efforts to see
in person the warrant officers of that ship, the names of whom were
furnished you by Captain Semmes. Tue services of these officers would
be of great advantage to me at a time now, I trust, not far distant, and
Captain Semmes report of their capacity is conclusive and satisfac-
tory; but. I can not exaggerate, sir, the caution and tact required to
get a ship to sea with even the external appearance of a man-of-war.
The slightest indiscretion on the part of those connected with such an
undertaking would doubtless cause a failure of the attempt. I beg
leave, therefore, to repeat the proposition I made to you verbally, viz,
that you direct these officers to remain in England for the present,
simply informing them that their services would probably be wanted
at some future time; then at the last moment I conld manage to get
them to sea in such a manner as would in no way connect them with
my movements. The details of such an arrangement have already
been planned in my own mind and will be verbally explained to you
when I next go up to London, which will be on Tuesday, the 6th
instant. I would furthermore suggest that the detention of these
officers be dependent upon their previously expressed willingness to go
upon any service the exigencies of the times may require, as in clan-
destinely fitted out expeditions it is absolutely necessary that all should
be of like inclination. I may mention that Mr. Cuddy, the gunner of
the Sumter, called on me day before yesterday, and when I mentioned
that you might wish to detain him here he expressed his entire willing

Page 770A

CONFEDERATE STATES STEAMER ALABAMA

Page 770B


Page 771

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	771

ness to do anything you might deem proper, adding that he only wished
to get upon some service as quickly as possible.
	With reference to the seamen mentioned in your letter I can only
say that any connection with them on my part would soon be known to
the American consul and would compromise my position here. These
men, it not under control, would spend money as fast as it could be
supplied to them, and could not be relied upon to appear when wanted.
With the exception of a few leading men, who must be British subjects,
I will be compelled to pick up crews at the latest moment, for no body
of seamen could be kept together in idleness for any length of time.
	Anxious that you shonid hear from me by return mail, I am neces-
sarily brief:, but will express my views upon the subject of your letter
more fully when I have the honor to see you on Wednesday next.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	JAMES D. BULLOCH,
	Hon. J. M. MASON,	Commander, C. AS. Navy.
Commissioner of the Confederate States.


Letter from Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, to Commander North, C. S. Navy, regarding his
appointment to command of vessel being fitted out by Commander Bulloch, C. S. Navy,
at Liverpool.
NASSAU, NEW PROVIDENCE, June 8, 1862.
	DEAR NORTH: I arrive here this morning, and found an order from
the Navy Department directing me to assume command of the ship
which Bulloch is fitting out. I shall return to England by the very
first opportunity, but I fear this will not present itself for two or three
r~eeks. In the] meantime, do me the favor to inform Bulloch imme-
diately of this change, and to request him to proceed with the prepara-
tion of the ship precisely as if he were to command her himself. Detain
also any of the Sumters officers who may be still in London or Liver-
pool, withoutinforming them, however, of the object of their detention,
lest through indiscretion they may speak of it. Write also to Arm-
strong, at Gibraltar, and tell him that he has been promoted to a
lientenancy, and that it is my intention to take him with me in the
new ship, and caution him particularly to preserve the secret, not even
to mention it to his most particular friend.
	Terry Sinclair and Maffitt are both here. Sinclair is coming over to
purchase or build and fit out a ship, and Maffitt is fitting out the Oreto.
Kell and Galt return with me. I hope this may be in tune for you to
stop Chapman and Evans. Our cause is decidedly on the mend, not-
withstanding our apparent disasters. Best respects to Mrs. North
and our very true friends the Fremletts.
Very truly, yours,
	Commander J. II. NORTH,	SEMm~S.
C. S. Navy.


Letter of instructions from registered owners of the bark Agrippina to Captain XcQueen,
master, in regard to rendezvousing at Terceira and transfer of cargo to the steamer
Enrica (afterwards the C. S. S. Alabama).
LONDON, July 28, 1862.
	CAPTAIN: You will proceed at once to sea with the brig Agrippina,
jiow under your command, and make the best of your way tQ the bay o

Page 772

772 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

Praya, in the island of Terceira, one of the Azores. Praya is on the
east side of the island, and is the best and safest anchorage in the
entire group, except Fayal, and being less frequented than this latter
place, all supplies are cheaper and you will have less difficulty in trans-
ferring the coals and other portions of your cargo to the steamer which
will soon follow you, and which will require the greater part of the
fuel you have on board for the further prosecution of her voyage.
Your experience as a scarnan renders it unnecessary to give you
especial advice as to the care of your vessel while at sea, and you will
of course use all proper precautions in approaching the land, but we
have consulted a nautical friend who has been to the island of Ter-
ceira, and it may be well to furnish von with his remarks upon the
anchorage at Praya and its approach.
	The bay of Praya is open to the east and is easy and safe of access,
there being no sunken rocks or danger of any kind not visible to the
eye. With a leading wind, stand boldly in for the middle of the bight
until a small islet off the north point is in range with the point of the
mainland of the island itself, then haul up for the lower part of the
town, which lies in the northern curve of the bay, and anchor by the
lead in 10 or 12 fathoms water. With the wind from the westward you
can work in by the lead, standing not quite so far on the southern as
on the northern tack, and bring up in 8 fathoms water.
	You will be visited, soon after anchoring, by the health officer, to
whom you will simply report that you have put in for supplies, and you
can enquire from him if you are in the best anchorage, and if not, get
a pilot and shift your berth. It is hoped that the steamer will not be
far behind you; indeed, you may find her already in the bay. The
name of the commander of the steamer is Butcher. He will have a
letter to you with authority to take whatever quantity of coal and
other articles of your cargo he may require, and we particularly desire
you to yield him your best assistance and afford him every facility in
your power for effecting his purpose, and you will then proceed to any
port he may direct, and land or deliver the balance of your cargo, as
may be necessary. In fine, you are to consider all orders from the com~
mander of the steamer as authorized by us, with or without any other
letter of advice. If any vessel is at anchor in Praya when you arrive,
hoist your number, and should it be your consort, she will stop a white
English ensign to the after shroud of the main rigging. If the steamer
arrive after you, she will, upon anchoring, make this same signal of the
white English ensign in the main rigging, which you will answer with
your number, after which you can communicate freely.
	IRelying with confidence upon your integrity and willingness to carry
out our wishes in the prosecution of the voyage you have umidertaken, we
do not deem it necessary to give you more minute directions in writing,
but may find means of communicating with you again before your
departure from Praya. Our interests are so deeply involved in the
adventure intrusted to your management that we shall fully appre-
ciate your exertions to bring it to a successful termination, and upon
your sale return to England, which we confidently anticipate, we shall
be happy to make you a tangible acknowledgment for any extra
exertions you may make for the satisfactory accomplishment of the
voyage.
Captain MOQUERN.

	NOTE.Thi5 letter of instructions was drawn up by Captain Bulloch
and signed by the registered owners of the Agrippina

Page 773

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	773

Letter from Commander Bulloch, C. S. Navy, to Acting Assistant Paymaster Yonge, ordering
him to duty on the C. S. S. Alabama.

,J 28, 1862.
	SIR: You will join the C. S. S. Alabama, temporarily under the orders
of Captain M. J. Butcher, and proceed in her to sea. The Alabama
may have to cruise several days in the British Channel and to touch
at one or two ports. During this time you are strictly enjoined not to
mention that you are in any way coniiected with the C. S. Navy, but
you will simply act as the purser of a private ship. In this capacity
you will keep account of all money paid, aiid you will assist Captain
Butcher in any manner he may desire.
	You have been provided with aninvoice of everything now on board
the Alabama as well as the cargo shipped on board the brig Agrippina,
which vessel you will meet at the port to which the Alabama is bound.
	The invoice of the Agripjpinas cargo gives the mark and number of
every case and bale, the contents of each, and the part of the vessel in
which it is stowed. You will endeavor to make yourself fully acquainted
with the invoices, and examine the storerooms so that you will be able
to give efficient aid in gettiug everything in its proper place when the
transfer of stores is made. When the Alabama is fairly at sea you will
mix freely with the warrant and petty officers, show interest in their
comfort and welfare, and endeavor to excite their interest in the
approaching cruise of the ship. Talk to them of the Southern States,
and how they are fighting against great odds for only what every Eng-
lishman enjoysliberty. Tell them at the port of destination a distin-
guished officer of the C. S. Navy will take coinniand of the ship for a
cruise in which they will have the most active service and be well taken
care of. I do not mean that you are to make the men set speeches or
be constantly talking to them, but in your positton you may frequently
throw out to leading men hints of the above tenor which will be com-
mented upon on the berth deck. Seaineii are very impressionable, and
can be easily influenced by a little tact and management. When Cap-
tain Senimes joins, you will at once report to him and act thereafter
under h-is instructions. He will be a stranger to the ship and crew,
and will be in a position of great responsibility and embarrassment.
You have it in your power to smooth away some of his difficulties in
advance, especially in having all the stores and cargo of the ship in an
orderly state and the men settled and well disposed, and I confidently
rely upon your exertions to bring about such a state of things.
	You will consider yourself as temporarily under the orders of Captain
Butcher, in whom I place great confidence, and by strict attention to
your duties and the display of zeal and judgment in their execution,
you will evince a just appreciatitm of the trust reposed in you, and will
prove that your appointment to so important a post has been deserved.
	Wishing you every success, I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAMES D. BULLOCH,
Commander, Coijedera te Navy.
	Acting Assistant Paymaster C. H. YONG-E.

Instructions of Commander Bulloch, C. S. Navy, to Captain Butcher, charged with the com-
mand of the steamer Ennca* (Alabama) from Liverpool to Terceira.

LIVERPOOL, July 30, 1862.
	SIR: You will proceed to sea in the steamship JJJnrica,* now under
your command, and taking the channel by the north of Ireland will
~ Enrica was the name under which the Alabama left Liverpool

Page 774

774 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

shape a course for the bay of Praya, in the island of Terceira, one o1 the
Azores. At that place you will be joined by the bark Agrippina, Cap-
tain McQueen, to whom you have a letter, and who will thenceforth be
under your orders. As the Agrippinct is a sailing vessel and may not
be at the place of rendezvous for a fortnight, it will not be necessary
for you tQ arrive ahead of her, and you will therefore economize your
fuel as much as possible, making the passage mostly under canvas.
You have be~i informed of the manner of signalizing the Agrippirta,
and when she joins you, if the weather permits, you will at once begin
to transfer her cargo to your own ship. The paymaster has an invoice
of her cargo, showing the contents of every case and bale, so that there
can be no confusion or delay. All slops, clothing, and other articles
you will please take on board first, and have placed in the pursers store
room, directing the paymaster to issue such of them as may be immedi-
ately required by the men. Get the gun carriages out of their cases
and place them in their proper places, the carriage for 8-inch gun on
the quarter-deck, and the one for the 7-inch gun immediately forward of
the bridge. The carriages for the broadside guns place opposite the
side -ports. The cases containing the guns, being filled with small fix.
tures and equipments, had better be left as you find them until the
Confederate States officer who is to command the ship arrives. The
cases containing the shot can be opened and the shot put in the racks
on deck, each rack being so fitted as to receive its proper shot. The
shells you will place in the shell room, each in its proper box, the
spherical shells in the starboard and the elongated shells in the port
shell rooms. The pistols are in four small cases made so that two of
them will fit into each of the arm chests on the quarter-deck. Put
these in the chests as soon as you get them on board. If you have any
doubt about the conter~ts of any case keep it until the arrival of your
successor in command. Fill the bunkers from the coal on board the
Agrippiru~ and keep both vessels ready for a start at short notice.
Captain H. Semmes, of the C. S. Navy, is the officer who will I hope
very soon relieve you. He will bring you a letter from me, and there-
after you will consider that all my control or authority over the ship is
transferred to him.
	My private and official intercourse with you has been such as to give
me a high estimate of your personal character and professional ability,
and as we have freely conversed as to the management of the adven-
ture you have undertaken, I do not deem it necessary to give you
written instructions as to the simple care of the ship. You are to con-
sider yourself as my confidential agent, and I shall rely upon you as
one gentleman may upon another. If you have an opportunity at any
time, send me a line, and get out of the reach of the telegraphic sta-
tions as soon as possible. I do not anticipate that you will meet with
any interruption in making the transfer of cargo, but an easterly gale
may force you to get the Agrippina out of the Praya Bay, in which
case you can tow her under the lee of the island and lie by her until
the weather permits you to return. In such a contingency, leave a
letter with her Majestys consul, directed to Captain J. W. Clendenin,
saying where you have gone, and that you will soon be back. It is
important that your movements should not be reported, and you will
please avoid speaking or signaling any passing ship. Wishing you a
successful cruise and hoping to see you soon in good health,
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
		   JAMES D. BULLOCH,
	Captain M. J. BUTCHER.	Commander, Confederate Navy

Page 775

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.
775
Letter from Commander Bulloch, C. S. Navy, to the Secretary of the Navy, annou.ucing the

departure of the steamer Enrica (Alabama) from LiverpooL

LIVERPOOL, August 3, 1862.
	SIR:	For the last fortnight the United States officials in this court-
try have ased every possible means of inducing the British authorities
to seize, or at least to forbid the sailing of:, the Alabama. Spies were
employed to watch the ship while lying in a private dockyard, and men
were at last bribed to make affidavit that they had actually been
enlisted by me to serve in the C. S. Navy. This charge, although per-
fectly unfounded, for I had been very cautious not to violate any Eng-
lish law, gave me much uneasiness, and learning on Tuesday last from
a very reliable source that the Government might not be able to resist
much longer the importunities of the American minister, I determined
to get the ship out of British waters, and therefore went to sea in her
myself; very unexpectedly, on Wednesday night. The Tuscarora was
known to be on the lookout, but favored by thick weather, which ena-
bled me to get quickly clear of stations from which our movements
could be telegraphed, she was dodged, and I have just returned to this
place, having left the Alabama well clear of the Irish coast, while the
Tuscarora still remains on the lookout off Queenstown, as the telegraph
reports.
	I have but a moment to mention this fact as the Nassau closed mail
leaves, or rather closes in an hour,~but will give you full particulars by
the first opportunity. I am in receipt of a letter from Captain Semmes,
and from its contents hope to see him here in a day or two. I will have
every arrangement made to dispatch himself and officers without delay
to join their ship. Lieutenant Sinclair has handed inc your instruc.
tions to assist him in building a wooden screw vessel. I have already
given him the contract and plans from which the Alabama was built,
and will give him every possible aid, but all the funds in my hands are
fi~tlly pledged, aftd I shall not have it in my power to furnish him pecu-
niary aid until after the receipt of large remittances. I will barely
allude here to my great disappointment at not commanding the ship to
which I have given so much care, but I shall not let this cause me to
relax my efforts to get the rams ready in the shortest time and in the
best manner. Only I beg very respectfully that I may be left to carry
out my plans without interference, and that I be allowed to use one of
them myself against the enemy. I shall not be able to resist the inclina-
tion to write you at some length on this point hereafter. At present
I am much fatigued from late exposure and several sleepless nights,
and have barely time to scrawl these hurried lines for the mail. The
Nassau mail is safe even though it passes through New York, and let-
ters can be forwarded from Nassau by private hands through the agent
of Messrs. Jno. Fraser &#38; Co.
In great haste, I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	Hon. S. II. MALLORY,	JAMES D. BULLOCH.
AS~ecretary of the Navy.

Letter from Commander Eulloch, C. S. Navy, to Hon. 3. N. Mason, C. S. commissioner at London

announcing the equipment and departure of the C. S. S. Alabama from Liverpool.

LIVERPOOL, September 1, 1862.
	SIR:	I seize the very moment of landing from the steamship Bahama
to inform you of my return to this place, and I am sure you will sym-
pathize with me in the satisfaction of knowing that the Ala?~ama i

Page 776

776 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

safely at sea, fully equipped under our own national flag, and with a
crew of 82 able seamen, besides a staff of 27 officers.
	You will remember that I informed you of my intention to go with
Captain Semmes to the rendezvous I had previously selected and to
which the Alabama had been dispatched, as also a vessel from nor her
port, with her armament and ordnance stores. In this hasty letter I
can only say that these combined movements were all successful. The
little fleet met at Terceira, and three days of hard but brisk and cheer-
ful work sufficed to put the Alabama in fighting trim. You can imagine
the glow of pleasure with which Captain Seinmes and myself greeted
the first wave of our flag from the peak of the gallant craft and the
satisfaction we felt in the assurance that arms as well as willing hearts
were ready to (lefend it. On Sunday before last, at midnight, I bade
Captain Semines farewell, with an earnest prayer for his success and
full confidence in his will and capacity to earn it. You will not be long
in hearing of his movements.
	Before parting Captain Semmes desired me to communicate with you
in reference to the sale of the Sumter, and I shall hold myself at your
service for such a purpose. Please instruct me as to your views or
wishes. Would the British Government allow the sale to be made at
Gibraltar if a guarantee were given that the transfer of property would
be final and bona ilde and the ship would uiot be used except for purely
commercial purposes ~ It would be necessary to know this, as a l)re-
liminary slip [step] iii the transaction. If you conclude to authorize
the sale, and the Government does not interfere, I will proceed at once
to carry out Captain Semmes views.
	In haste, I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient
servant,
JAMES D. BULLOCH,
Commander, C. S. Navy.
	Hon. JAMEs M. MASON.


Report Qf Commander Bulloch, C. S. Navy, of the safe equipment and departure from Tercoira
of the C. S. 5. Alabama, under the command of Captain Semmes, C. S. Navy.

LIVERPOOL, September 10, 1862.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my return to England after a short
cruise to the Western Islands, where I had gone with Captain Semmes
to see him fairly afloat in the Alabama. You have been already informed
that I had taken the Alabama out of British waters and, leaving her
off the northwest coast of Ireland, had returned to Liverpool to prepare
a ship for the conveyance of Captain Semmes and his officers, as soon
as they arrived. The battery and ordnance stores, with a quantity of
mens clothing and general supplies for a cruising ship, with 250 tons of
coal from another part of the Kingdom, were dispatched in a sailing
vessel, bought for the purpose, and the two ships were ordered to ren-
dezvons at Praya, in the island of Terceira.
	Captain Seinmes arrived from Nassau about the 8th of August, and
on the 13th I sailed in the steamship Bahama, with him and all his offi-
cers, for the previously selected rendezvous. In seven days the Bahama
reached Praya, and we had the satisfaction of finding the Alabama and
her consort at anchor in the bay. It was now Wednesday, August 20,
and no time was lost in commencing the transfer of stores from the
tender to the Alabama. Benignly favored by Providence with mild,
~ah~ weather, we met with no interruption, and the work progressed ~

Page 777

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	777

briskly that at 10 a. in. on Friday, the 22d, the last gun of the battery
was mounted, the powder and shell all in and stowed, shot in their
proper racks, and, hi tine, the tender was discharged. The remainder
of Friday and the whole of Saturday until 10 p. in. was occupied in
coaling, at which time the main brace was spliced and the hammocks
piped down, the Alabama, so far at least as related to her equipment,
being ready for action.
	On Sunday morning the Alabama and Bahama steamed slowly off
the land, and when beyond the marine league, which was covered by
the jurisdiction of Portugal, our owii national colors were hoisted for
the first time at the Alabamas peak, welcomed by three cheers from
the united crews of both vessels. Now came the affair of shipping
the men. formally for the Confederate States service, making out their
allotment tickets, arranging their accounts, etc. This could be done
leisurely, for we were on time high seas, beyond the reach of foreign
enlistment acts and neutrality proclamations, the most annoying foes
we have to contend with on this side of the Atlantic. By 12 oclock at
night all these matters were arranged, the two steamers stopped their
engines, and bidding Captain Semmes a cordial adieu, with heartfelt
prayers for his success, I stepped over the Alabamas side with feelings
very much akin to those which oppress a man when he leaves his home
behind him. The heavens were brilliant with stars, a blazing comet
illuminated the sky to the northwest, the lanterns of the Alabama
gleamed brightly as she rose and fell to the sea, the signs were all
favorably ominous, arid, banishing every sentiment but hope, I pre-
dicted a glorious cruise for the dashing little craft and her gallant com-
mander. Commander Semmes has written you enclosing crew list,
etc., atid for further information I beg to refer you to his report.
	The Tuscarora has been in the British Channel for more than two
mouths, waiting tc intercept the A labama when she attempted to move.
Means were adopted to mislead Captain Craven, who, I must say, has
proved himself a very credulous officer, as well as a very rude man.
He went prying about in the harbors and bays of the Irish and Eng-
lish coast long after the Alabama was fairly off, until he was flatly
refused permission to coal at Belfast and was compelled to go to Cadiz
for fuel. If Captain Craven continues to be curious in reference to the
Alabamas movements, he will, I think, very soon be gratified by fre.
quent announcements of her locality.
	*	*	*	*	*

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	JA~IES D. BULLOCH,
	Hon. S. H. MALLORY,	Gommauder, 0. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy.


Letter from Commander Bulloch, C. S. Navy, to Hon. 3. N. Mason, C. S. cemmissioner at Lon-
don, giving account of the equipment and departure from Liverpool of the C. S. S. Ajabama,
Commander ~4emmes~ C. S. Navy.
LIVERPOoL, December 30, 1862.
	DEAR Sin: I am in receipt of your letter of yesterday, and hasten
to reply to your enquiries seriatim.
	1. Captain Semines went on board the Alabama, for the first time, in
the Bay of Angra, island of Terceira, on, I think, the 20th of August,
1862, but did not assume command of her until August 24, the ship
then hein~ a.t sea. ~ff the jsh~nd of Tercetra

Page 778

778 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	2.	When the Alabama left Liverpool she had no part of her arma-
ment on board, no ordnance stores, no military equipment.
	3.	When the Alabama left Liverpool she had not more than 30 men
on board, a number not sufficient to manage a steam vessel of her class
bound upon a tropical voyage.
	4.	Additions were made to the Alabamas crew after leaving Eng-
land; the men were put on board at sea, off the island of Terceira.
	5.	The Alabama received her armament between the 20th and 24th
of August, 1862.
	6.	The tran sfer of the Alabama to the Confederate States, as prop-
erty, was made on the 24th of August, 1862.
	7.	Captain Semmes was ordered by the honorable Secretary of the
Navy to the command of the Alabama.
	8.	Putting a ship in commission consists in hoisting the national flag
and the pennant, which latter represents the commanders dignity or
authority, on a foreign station. It is usual to read the orders of the
captain to the particular ship. In the case of Captain Semmes, both
these formalities were complied with, and his commission as a com-
mander in the C. S. Navy was aho read to the men assembled on the
quarter-deck. After this the men were released from their engage-
ment as a crew for the Enrica and were asked to ship for her on the
C. S. S. Alabama. This took place on the 24th of August, 1862, at sea,
more than a marine league from the island of Terceira. Enrica was
the name by which the Alabama was christened; 290 was simply her
number in the building yard. I write the dates from friemory, but can
verify them if necessary by reference to my notes, kept at the times of
the various occurrences mentioned. I have telegraphic advice that the
Sumter has been sold, but no particulars. I suppose Lieutenant Chap-
man will soon be heufe, when I will furnish you with a statement of the
result of her sale.
In haste to secure this evenings mail,
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAMES D. BULLOCH.
llQn. JAMES M. MASON.



Report of Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. 8~ 8. Alabama, of the cruise of that
vessel from August 24, 1862, to January 4, 1863.

C.	S. S. ALABAMA,
Areas [Gay] Island, Gulf of Mexico, January 4, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you that since the date of my last
dispatch (August 24, 1862) I have been actively cruising in this ship
against the enemys commerce. Upon leaving Terceira, I devoted a
few days to putting my ship in order, stationing and drilling my crew,
who, though mostly good seamen, were new to the discipline, etc., of a
ship of war. On the 5th of September, 1862, I made my first prize off
the Azores, and I continued to cruise in that vicinity for about ten
days, capturing and destroying several ships of the enemy. From
the Azores I proceeded to the Banks of Newfoundland, and cruised
thence in the direction of New York, capturing and destroying several
othervaluable ships. Off the banks, on the 16th of October, I encoumi-
tered a hurricane, which blew away a close-reefed main-topsail and
carried away my main yard. When within about 250 miles of New
York, finding that I had but four days coal on board, I bore up for th

Page 779

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	779

island of Martinique, whither I had ordered my coal ship to rendezvous.
On my way to that island I captured and destroyed two very valuable
ships. I reached Martinique on the 18th of ~ovember, and finding
that my coal ship had been lying there a week or ten days and that
the object of her visit was well known, I sent hei to sea the next day,
appointing a new rendezvous. It was well I did so, as she had not
been gone twenty-four hours when the lIT. S. steam frigate &#38; ~n Jacinto
arrived. On the evening of the day of the arrival of that ship, being
ready to follow my coal ship to her new rendezvous, I steamed out of
the harbor soon after nightfall, without even seeing the enemy, who
was keeping watch and ward a marine league off.
	I coaled at the little island of Blanquilla, on the coast of Venezuela,
the new rendezvous appointed. Here I found a United States whaling
schooner, but 1 forebore to capture her, because of the claim of Ven-
ezuela to this barren little island, a claim as barren as the island, as
there was no settled population upon it, and of course no vestige of
government. Desiring to strike a blow at the enemy on our own coast,
I sent the coal ship to this place and proceeded myself to cruise off the
east end of Cuba, in the track of the California steamers, with the hope
of capturing one of the homeward bound, with treasure, intending
when this short cruise should be completed to follow the coal ship
hither, recoal, andproceed to carry out my original intention against the
enemy. On my way to the east end of Cuba, 1 captured and destroyed a
bark from Boston for Aux Cayes, and on the 7th of December, after I had
been lying off Cape Maise [Maysi) several days, I captured the California
stleamer Ariel, unfortunately outward instead of homeward bound. I
found on board of her $8,000 in U. S. Treasury notes (not worth much
by this time, I presume) amid $1,500 in silver, and as there was no cer-
tificate or other paper on board claiming it as neutral property, I took
possession of it as prize of war. There were 150 marines on board this
ship, including six officers, all of whom I disarmed and paroled. I also
paroled Commander Sartori, of the U. S. Navy, who was on board. As
this ship had on board some 700 souls (passengers and crew), many of
whom were women and children, and as it was alike impossible to take
her into a neutral port or to receive the passengers on board this ship,
I had no alternative but to release her under ransom bonds, which I did
on the 9th of December. After having hove to on the north side of
Jamaica out of the track of vessels for three days, for the purpose of
repairing my engine, to which an accident had happened which com-
pletely disabled it for the time, I filled away and made sail for this
place, where I arrived on the 23d of December. I shall proceed to sea
to-night or to-morrow morning, having replenished my coal, calked my
spar deck, which had become very open, and otherwise retittedmy ship.
The coal ship I will dispatch for England so soon as she is ballasted.
The Alabama has proved herself to be a fine ship, and is fast both under
sail and steam. I have nearly a full crew, and they are pretty well
drilled. I forbear to speak of my contemplated movements lest my
dispatch should fall into the hands of the enemy. As soon as I run the
gauntlet of the gulf, I will proceed to carry out your original sugges-
tions as to the nature of my cruise.
	I enclose a list of vessels captured. I trust I need not assure you
that I will pay the strictest regard to your orders respecting neutral
property, and that in no instance have I destroyed a ship where the
proof was complete that her cargo was neutral. There have been some
awkward attempts on the part of unscrupulous merchants to cover
their property, and where I have destroyed such property the proof o

Page 780

780 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

the fraud has been apparent upon the papers. The number of prison-
ers paroled is 492.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[It. SEMMES],

Commander.
Hon. S. B. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy, Richmond, Va.

LEnclosure.]

List of Vessels captured by C. S. S. Alabama.

	Name	Date,	Disposition.	Name.	Date.	Disposition.
	1862.	I 1862.
Ocrnulgee 	Sept.	5	Burned.	Manchester	Oct.	11	Burned.
Starlight	Sept.	7	   Do.	Lampligbter	Oct.	15	  Do
Ocean Rover	Sept.	8	   Do.	Lafayette	Oct.	23	  Do:
Alert	Sept.	9	  Do.	Crenshaw	Oct.	26	  Do.
Weather Gange~	Sept.	9	   Do.	Lauraetta	Oct.	28	  Do.
Altamaha	Sept.	13	  Do.	Baron do Castine	Oct.	29	Released u n d e r
Benj. Tucker	Sept.	14	  Do.				 bond and made a
Courser	Sept.	16	   Do.				 cartel.
Vir~inia	Sept.	17	   Do.	Levi Starbuck 	Nov.	2	Burned.
Elisha Dunbar	Sept.	18	   Do.	T. B. Wales	Nov.	8	   Do.
Brilliant	Oct.	3	  Do.	Parker Cook	Nov.	10	   Do
Emily Farnum	Oct.	3	Neutral cargo; re.	Union	Dec.	5	Neutral cargo; re-
			 leased as a car-				 leased on bond.
			 tel.	Ariel	Dec.	7	Released on ran-
Wave Crest	Oct.	7	Burncd.				 som bond.
Dunkirk	Oct.	7	   Do.
Tonawanda	Oct.	9	Converted into a
			 cartel and re-
			 leased on ran-
			 som bond.

Ransom bond of the ship Tonawanda, of Philadelphia, captured by the C. 8. 5. Alabama,
Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding, October 9, 1862.

	Know all men by these presents, that whereas the American ship
Tonawanda, of Philadelphia, of which Thomas P. Cope and Francis It.
Cope are the owners, together with her cargo, consisting of 47,500
bushels of wheat, etc., of which the said Thomas P. Cope and Francis
iR. Cope are the shippers and owners, under my command, was this day
captured on the high seas by the C. S. S. Alabama, R. Semines, coin-
mander; and whereas I, as the master of the said ship, am anxious to
ransom the said ship and cargo for the benefit of the owners: Now,
therefore, in consideration of the release of said ship and cargo by the
said It. Semines, the release whereof is hereby acknowledged, I am
held and firmly bound, and I do hereby bind the said fhomas P. Cope
and Francis It. Cope, owners of the aforesaid ship and cargo, their and
my heirs, executors, and assigns, well and truly to pay unto the Presi-
dent of the Confederate States of America for the time being, at the
conclusion of the present war between the said Confederate States and
the United States, the sum of ~80, 000, current money of the said Con-
federate States, and the said ship Tonawanda, her tackle and apparel,
are hereby mortgaged for the payment of this bond.
	Done under my hand and seal this, the 9th day of October, in the yeac
of our Lord 1862.
THEODORE JULIUS. [SEAL.]
	Witness:
W.	B. SMITH,
Commanders Clerk

Page 781

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	781

Ransom bond of the brigantine Baron de Castine, captured by the C. S. S. Alabama, Coin-
mander Semmes, C. S. Navy, October 29, 1862.


	Know all men by these presents, that whereas the brigantine Baron
do Castine, of Castine, Me., under my command, together with her
cargo, was this day captured on the high seas as prize of war by the
C. S. steamer of war Alabama, H. Seinmes, commander; and whereas I,
John Saunders, master of said brigantine, am. desirous of ransoming
said brigantine and cargo for the benefit of all concerned: Now, there-
fore, I, John Saunders, master as aforesaid, do acknowledge myself
bound, jointly and severally with the owners of the said brig, to wit,
Charles E. Jarvis, John H. Jarvis, Sarah E. Jarvis, Francis M. Jarvis,
Mark II. Lufkin, A. S. C. Devereux, and Henry J. Lufkin, to the Pres-
ident of the Confederate States of America, in the sum of $4,000, to be
well and truly paid to the President of the said Confederate States
within thirty days after the close of the present war, for and in con-
sideration of the release of the said brigantine Baron do Castine, the
release whereof is hereby acknowledged; and I do hereby further
bind myself, B. B. Farnsworth &#38; Co., of Bangor, Me., and M. Ceballos,
of the city of New York, to pay nnto the President of the said Confederate
States the further sum of $2,000 in coiisideration of the release of the
cargo of the said brigantine, the release whereof is hereby acknowl.
edged.
	Executed this, the 29th day of October, in the year 1862, on board
the C. S. S. Alabama, at sea.
JOHN SAUNDERS. [sEAL.]
	Witness:
W.	B. SMITH,
Commanders Clerk.



Ransom bond of the schooner Union, of Baltimore, captured by the C. S. S. Alabama, Com-
mander Semmes, C. S. Navy, December 5, 1862.


	Know all men by these presents, that whereas the schooner Union, of
Baltimore, Md., nnder my command, was this day captured on the high
seas as prize of war by the C. S. steamer of war Alabama, H. Semmes,
commander; and whereas I, J. H. Young, master of said schooner, as
aforesaid, am desirous of ransoming said schooner for the benefit of
myself and of the owners thereof to wit, John II. Lambdin, Robert P.
Lambdin, Thos. J. Larubdin, Thos. E. Waddy, citizens of the United
States: Now, therefore, I, J. II. Young, master of the said schooner as
aforesaid, acting for myself and for the above-named owners, as I am
empowered to do by the laws of nations, for and in consideration of the
release of said schooner by the captor, the release whereof is hereby
acknowledged, do acknowledge myself and the aforesaid owners, to wit,
John II. Lambdin, Robert P. Lambdin, Thos. J. Lambdin, and Thos. E.
Waddy, citizens of the United States, jointly and severally indebted to
the President of the Confederate States of America, and liis successor
and his successors in office, in the sum of $1,500, which said sum of
$1,500 well and truly to pay unto the President of the Confederate
States of America, his successor and successors in office, within thirty
days after the conclusion of the present war betweemi the said Confed-
erate States and the United States, I hereby bind myself and the above-
iiamed owners, jointly and severally, and my aiid their heirs, executors

Page 782

782 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

administrators, and assigns, and I do hereby hypothecate the said
schooner, her tackle and apparel, for the payment of this bond.
	Done at sea, under my hand and seal, 011 this, the 5th day of iDecem-
ber, in the year of our Lord 1862.
JOSEPH H. YOUNG. [SEAL.]
	Witness:
W.	B. SMITH,
Commanders Clerk.


Ransom bond of the U. S. mail steamer Ariel, of New York, captured by the C. S. S. Alabama,
Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, December 9, 1862.

	Know all men by these presents, that whereas the U. S. mail steamer
Ariel, of New York City, under my command, together with her cargo,
was on or about the 7th day of December, 1862, captured on the high
seas as prize of warbytheC. S. steamer of warAlabama, IR. Semmes, com-
mander; and whereas I, A. G. Jones, master of said steamer as aforesaid,
am desirous of ransoming said steamer and cargo, and all freight moneys,
for the benefit of myself and of the owner thereof to wit, Cornelius
Vanderbilt, of New York, owner of the steamer, and for the benefit of the
different owners of the cargo, whose names appear in the bills of lading
and duplicatemanifest hereunto annexed, andmarked respectivelyA and
B: Now, therefore, I, A. G. Jones, master of the said steamer as afore-
said, acting for myself and for the above-mentioned owner, as I am
empowered to do by the laws of nations, for and in consideration of the
release of said steamer and cargo by the captor, the release whereof is
hereby acknowledged, do acknowledge myself and the aforesaid owner,
to wit, Cornelius Vanderbilt, of New York, owner of the steamer, and
the different owners of the cargo, whose names appear in the bills of
lading and duplicate manifest, hereunto annexed and marked respect-
ively A and B, jointly and severally indebted to the President of the
Confederate States of America, and his successor and successors in
office, in the sum of $138,000, being the value of the steamer and freight
money, and in the further sum of $123,000, being the value of the cargo,
which said sum of $138,000, being the value of the steamer and freight
money, and $123,000 being the value of her cargo, well and truly to
pay unto the President of the Confederate States of America, his suc-
cessor and successors in office, within thirty days after the conclusion
of the present war between the said Confederate States and the United
States, I hereby bind myself and the above-named owner, jointly and
severally, and my and his heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns,
and I do hereby hypothecate the said steamer Ariel, her tackle and
apparel, together with her cargo, for the payment of this bond.
	Executed under my hand and seal on this, the 9th day of December,
in the year of our Lord 1862, on board the C. S. steamer of war Ala.
bama.
	Witnessed by	A. G. JONES. [SEAL.]
W.	B. SMITH,
Commanders Clerk.


Deposition of Captain A. G. Jones, of the U. S. mail steamer Ariel.

	Question. What is the name of your vessel ~

Answer. U. S. mail steamer Ariel, of New York

Page 783

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	783

	Question. What is your own name?

Answer. A. G. Jones.

	Question. Where are yoa bound, and where from?

Answer. From New York, bound to Aspinwall.

	Question. What are you loaded with?

Answer. Assorted cargo.

	Question. Who are the shippers of your cargo?

Answer. Wells, Fargo &#38; Co., and the Vanderbilt Express Company.

	Question. Who are the owners of your cargo?

Answer. No personal knowledge.

A.	C. JONES.
	Witnessed by

W.	B. SMITH,
Commanders Clerk.
0.	S. S. ALABAMA, at Sea, December 7, 1862.


Extracts from the journal of Commander Semmes, commanding the C. S. S. Alabama,

August 20, 1862, to 3anuary 4, 1863.

Cost of the C. S. S. Alabama.

Hull, spars, sails, boats, anchors, cables, and all equipment, except armament. 47, 500
Battery	..	2,500
Magazine tanks		616
Ordnance stores		500
Small arms		600
	  Total	51. 716

51,716 at $4.84~$250,305.44.

	Wednesday, August 20,1862.Having embarked on board the steamer
Bahama, Captain Tessier, belonging to the house of Fraser, Trenhoim
&#38; Co., wit~h my officers and some seamen wham we shipped for a
feigned voyage, and whom we hoped to reenlist for the Alabama, I
sailed from Liverpool on the morning of Wednesday, August 13, join-
ing the ship in a steam tug, she having dropped down toward the
mouth of the Mersey a few hours before. Commander Bulloch, who
had contracted for the building of the Alabama, her armament, equip~
ment, etc., embarked with me. As the tug left us to return to the city,
the crew gave us three hearty cheers, which we responded to.
	After a passage of seveu days, on the morning of the 20th of August
we made the island of Terceira, and soon afterwards the port of Praya,
at the east end of the island, our appointed rendezvous. As we
approached the port we looked with eager eyes for the Alabama and
her consort, the Agrippina, which had been dispatched to her from
London with her armament. Greatly to our satisfaction we soon dis-
covered the spars and then the hulls of both vessels lying snugly in
the bay, and apparently in contact, indicating the transshipment of
the battery, etc. At about 11:30 a. m. we steamed into the harbor,
and were immediately boarded by Captain Butcher, of the Alabama,
who reported that he had already gotten on board from the bark all the
heavy guns, and many of the paymasters stores, etc. As this harbo

Page 784

784 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

is open to the east, and as the wind was blowing from the N. E., driv-
ing a considerable swell in, which [caused] the two vessels to lie very
uneasily alongside of each other, I gave orders that they should both
follow me to the bay of Angra, where we all anchored about 4 p. m.
Hauled the two steamers alongside, and commenced discharging the
two additional guns, etc., that I had brought with me in the Bahama.
After having shown the Alabama to the seamen I bad on board the
Bcthama (numbering 37), 1 addressed them, telling them that they were
released from the contract they had enter~ed into in Liverpool and were
110W perfectly free to dispose of themselves, and that I invited them to
enter with me on board the Alabama. I spoke of the war, explained
to them the objects of my contemplated cruise, and the inducements
held out to them of prize money, etc. That afternoon about one-half
the number shipped; the others hung back, perhaps for better terms.
There are, perhaps, some sea lawyers among them influencing their
determination.
	I moved my baggage on board and slept my first night on board my
new ship. Warned by the authorities that West Angra was not a port
of entry and that we must move round to East Angra.
	Thursday, August 21.Clear, fine weather. I am charmed with the
appearance of Terceira. Every square foot of the island seems to be
under the most elaborate cultivationthe little fields divided by hedge
rows of what appears to be sugar cane. The white one-storied houses
are dotted thickly among all this cultivation, giving evidence of great
populousness in this primitive paradise, so far removed away from the
world, and so little resorted to by commerce.
	Wind inclined to haul to the S. E., which will open us to the sea again;
and I am of course quite anxious. Received a letter (or ratlAer Cap-
tain Butcher, who is still the nominal commander of the ship, did)
from the English consul, informing us that tIme authorities still insisted
upon our going round to East Angra. Replied that we had come in to
receive coal from the bark in our company, etc., and that as the day
seemed fine, and we should probably have a good lee for the purpose,
I would go to sea, without the marine league, for the purpose. I knew
they suspected me of arming as well as coaling, and hence I resorted
to this step to quiet their apprelmensions of my infringing their neu-
trality. Stood along the islandthe Bahama in company and the bark
alongsideand hoisted out the gun carriages and mounted as many of
the guns as we could. Returned during the afternoon, and after night-
fall anchored in East Angra with the bark still alongside. We were
bailed very vociferously as we passed, in very bad English or Portu-
guese. we could not make out, and a shot was fired at us. The Bahama,
which was following us, hauled off and stood oft and on during the nighmt.
We continued our course and anchored at about 8:30 p. m. Near mid-
night I was aroused from a deep sleep into which I had fallen after the
fatigue and excitement of the day, and informed by the officer of the
deck very coolly that the man-of-war schooner was firing into me. As
I knew they did not dare to fire into me, but were only firing at me, per-
haps to alarm me into going out of the harbor, I directed the officer to
take imo noticeof the proceeding. In the morning we learned that this
was a false alarm, and that the firing had beeim by the mail steamer, to
bring on board her passengers. Had a talk with the old boatswains
mate, who consented to go with me, and to use his influence to bring
over to inc all the good men he could influence.
	Friday, August 22.Cloudy, with wind from the S. W., promising us
a smooth bay for our work. Called all hands at 6 a. m. and commence

Page 785

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	785

coaling. At 7 a number of custom-house officers and the English con-
sul came on board. Our coaling was suspended until the two ships
could be entered at the custom-house. We lost a couple of hours by
this visit, but I was gratified to learn, as the result of it, that we might
remain quietly and continue our coaling, etc. We got the remaining
guns in to position; got up and loaded some of the rifles, opened a bar-
rel of cartridges for the big guns, and made sundry other hasty prepa-
rations for defense in case any attempts shoul be made to seize the
ship. Weather very warm. At 11:30 signaled the Bahama and brought
her in to her anchors. Toward iiight the weather became rainy, and
considerable sea setting into the harbor we shoved the bark off to an
anchor, and during the night she having dragged her anchor we were
obliged to send a party on board to let go another to prevent her from
dragging on shore.
	There was quite a row this evening on board the bark, resulting in a
geiieral fight, the vagabonds of sailors having got drunk by some means
or other.
	&#38; tturday, Augu8t 23.Morning cloudy and rainy. We were unable to
get the bark alongside, so as to continuc coaling, befQre 9 a. in.; still
we are hurrying the operation, and hope to be able to get through by
night. We have all sorts of chaiauters on board, but the crew is working
quite willingly, now and then a ~runken or a lazy vagabond turning up.
The sharp fellows, thinking 11 am dependent upon them for a crew, are
holding back and trying to drive a hard bargain with me. Getting
the battery to rights and ~aiking the screw well, which leaks badly
when she is underway. Made Sonic acting appointments to fill up
my officers. Received on board a fine supply of fresh provisions and
vegetables for the crew. In this beautiful island all The fruits of the
temperate and many of the torrid zone are produced; fine apples,
pears, plums, and melons came off to us.
	Sunday, August 24.We finished coaling yesterday, except 7 or 8
tons; by working until 9p. in., when the men were fairly higged out.
flauled the bark off and resolved to go out with what coal I had on
board, as to finish entirely would involve a delay of Sunday, to-day.
This morning we cleared the deck of the coal that was still lying upon
it, and washed down, and at 12 oclock we got up steam and went to
sea, in company with the Bahama. Having got some 4 or 5 miles from
Angra we fired the starboard bow gun, hauled down the English and
hoisted our own ensign, which we saluted with our small band by play-
ing Dixie. The Bahama cheered, and fired a gun, and our men returned
the cheer with hearty good will. I then had all hands sent aft on the
quarter-deck and addressed them, as I had done the men on board the
Bahama, inviting them to ship with me for the cruise. As may be sup-
posed, I was very nervous about the success of this operation, as the
management of the ship at sea absolutely depended upon it. I was
obliged to accede to the terms proposed by the men, and increase the
pay of seamen to 4 I Os., and petty officers to 5 and 6, and fire-
men to 7. I was glad to get them even upon these terms, as I was
afraid a large bounty in addition would be demanded of me. I got a~
crew, all told, of eighty men, better than I expected, but not so many
by twenty-five as I wanted. The modern sailor has greatly changed iii
character, as he now stickles for pay like a sharper, and seems to have
lost his former love of adventure and of recklessness.
	I had a hard evenings work, assisted by my paymaster and clerk in
preparing allotments to be sent to the sailors wives, sending small
drafts forthem to Liverpool, and paying their advance wages. At last we
123~5

Page 786

186 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.


got through about 11 oclock and Captain Bulloch and Captain Butcher
left me, and the Bahama steamed away for Liverpool. We kept the
ship N. E., set the fore and main trysails, and let the fires go down. I
turned into an uneasy bed, absolutely worn out, and to make me still
more uncomfortable, it began to blow a moderate gale of wind, and the
ship rolled and tumbled at a great rate during the entire night.
	Monday, August 25.We are still rolling and tumbling about in one
of those ugly seaways that are so common in the North Atlantic.
Everything is in confusion, and everybody uncomfortable. The ship is
very dirty below, nobody berthed or messed, spare shot boxes and other
heavy articles fetching away, and the ship leaking considerably through
her top works, which, having been calked in England in the winter,
have become open under a summers sun in the Azores. Pump, pump.
I hoped I had gotten rid of the eternal clanking of the pump when I
laid the Sumter up. Still standing to the N. E. under trysails, and the
wind still blowing, with a heavy sea. I am trying to get a little sleep,
so as to quiet my worn nerves. Latitude, 390 15 30; longitude, 26~
30. The first lieutenant is trying to bring order out of chaos, in get.
ting his crew into shape.
	Tuesday, August 26.A fine, clear day, but with much of the sea of
the late blow still continuing. Set the topsails and topgallant sails. In
the afternoon got the propeller out of the water. Latitude, 390 39;
longitude, 260 07.
	Wednesday, August 27.Morning and most of the day fine. Weather
clouding, ~with light rain in the afternoon. Ship proves to be a fine
sailer nuder canvas. Condensing water4 and everybody busy getting
the ship to rights; passing extra shot below, stowing the magazine,
cleaning up, etc. At daylight made a steamer on the weather bow,
passing to the northward and eastward, probably for the coast of Eng-
land. A brig passed astern of us also at a great distance. Latitude,
390 59 longitude, 24~ 34.
	Thursday, August 28.A fine, clear day, with a smooth sea, greatly
favoring our preparations of the battery and other fittings. Finished
overhauling and stowing the magazine, commenced putting down the
circles for the pivot guns. We are still quite defenseless, however.
Two or three days more of fine weather will set us all rightthat is, as
right as we can be with a short crew. Latitude, 390 58 20; longitude,
21~ 30.
	Friday, August 29.A fine, clear day, with a light breeze from the
southward and westward, and a smooth sea. We have done a pretty
good days work to-day, having nearly completed putting down the
sweeps for the two pivot guns. Soon after daylight a sail was reported
on the starboard bow, which proved to be a brig. Kept away a point
for her, and toward night approached her within 5 or 6 miles. Showed
Spanish colors, to which she did not respond, and fired a blank cart-
ridge from the starboard bow gun. But as she did not appear to be an
American, and as I was anxious to haul by the wind to make my way
to the westward, I did not continue the chase after dark. Latitude, 38~
56 45; Ion gitude, 190 23.
	Saturday, August 30.Morning clear, clouding as the day advanced,
with the wind freshening from the northward and westward. In the
afternoon a schooner passed us to windward steering to the eastward.
Gave chase to a brig which proved to be French. Standing to the
westward during the night under topsails; some sea on. Finished
putting down the bearings for the pivot guns, and stationed and mus-
tered the crew at quarters. We find that we have just men enoug

Page 787

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	787

to fight the guns by putting six of the junior officers at the rifled gun
to make out its crew. Latitude, 370 23 16 longitude, 190 06 05.
	Sunday, August 31.Cloudy weather, with a fresh breeze from the
northward and eastward, and a heavy sea. In tIle early forenoon ran
down and showed French colors to a Portuguese brig. The men were
permitted to rest to-day from their labors. Running westward under
topsails. At midnight brought by the wind on the port tack. No obser-
vation. Latitude, by account, 360 23; longitude at 4 p. in., 210 54.
	Monday, September 1.Clear and cloudy by turns, with occasional
sprinkles of rain. Wind fresh from the eastward and some sea run-
ning. Engaged finishing the fittings of the battery and in getting
some of the accumulated dirt off the decks and bulwarks. Lying to
under topsails. At 3 p. in. filled away and stood N. W. Latitude, 350
33; longitude, 22~ 17 45.
	Tuesday, September 2.Clear and cloudy by turns, with the wind from
the eastward. At 10:30 sent a boat on board the French bark Toy, of
Nantes, bound from the East Indies to Bordeaux. Suspended the chief
engineer for dis~obedience of orders and improper language to the first
lieutenant. Engineers in general seem to think that they have a sort
of separate command, and that they are, to some extent, independent
of the first lieutenant; and it gives some little trouble in the commence-
ment of a cruise to disabuse them of this idea. Backing out the extra
breeching bolts for the broadside guns that interfere with the running
out of these guns. Our battery is not yet in a condition for effective
use, although we have been at work at it now nine days. We ere fortu-
nate in not having met an enemy in this state of unpreparedness. Even-
ing rainy and squally. Shortened sail to topsails. Latitude, 350 29;
longitude, 240 22, 3 p. in.
	Wednesday, September 3.Cloudy and clear by turns, with a~ moder-
ate breeze from the northward and eastward. To-day we exercised our
guns for the first timethat is to say, the pivot guns, the broadside
guns not being yet ready. Got up some rifled shell to fill, but were pre-
vented by appearance of rain. Shortened sail to topsails at 10:30 p.
m.	Latitude, 360 16; longitude, 250 56.
	Thursday, September 4.A fine clear day, with a steady breeze from
the eastward. Exercised the crew at all the guns except the two bow
guns, which are not quite ready. Filled a number of shells for both
the pivot guns. In the afternoon made Pico and Fayal. No sail seen
for the last two days. Reduced sail to topsails at nightfall. Latitude,
370 22 39; longitude, 280 08 15- barometer, 30.5, higher than I rec-
ollect ever to have noticed it before. We are sensibly changing the
temperature.
	Friday, September 5.Cloudy, with the wind light from the eastward.
Soon after daylight gave chase to a brig which outsailed us, and soon
afterwards made a ship, which we soon discovered to be lying to, with
her fore-topsail to the mast. As we approached, discovered her to be
a whaler. Hoisted the English colors, which was returned by the ship
hoisting United States colors. Having come within boarding distance,
sent a boat on board and brought the captain on board with his papers,
hoistiiig our own colors as the boarding officer got alongside. She
proved to be the ship Oemulgee, of Edgartown, the captain being a gen-
uine specimen of a Yankee, Abraham Osborn. Captured her and
brought the crew on board, and a quantity of rigging of which we were
in need, and some beef and pork, and small stores. At 9p. in. hove her
to, with a light at the peak, and brought away our own officer and crew,
and lay by her during the night. Number of prisoners, 37

Page 788

788 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Saturday, September 6.Cloudy, clearing off fine toward night. At
9, having descried a bark, set fire to the prize, and gave chase. At
meridian came up with and showed the United States colors to the
chase, which proved to be a Frenchman bound to Marseilles. Kept
away N. ~ W., and in a couple of hours afterwards made the island of
Flores ahead. A beautiful night.
	Sunday, September 7.A fine, clear day, clouding towards evening.
Running in for the island of Flores. At 11 a. rn. mustered the crew for
the first time, and caused to be read the articles of war to which the
crew listened with great attention. At 3:30 p. in., having approached
sufficiently near the town of Lagens, on the south side of the island, we
sent all the prisoners on shore (having, first paroled them) in the three
whaleboats belonging to the prize Ocmulgee; and at 4, filled awayou
the starboard tack to head off a schooner that appeared to be running
in for the island. Having approached her within a mile, we hoisted the
English colors. The chase not showing her colors in return, fired the
lee bow gun. Still paying no attention to us, but endeavoring to pass
us, fired a shot athwart her bow. Not yet heaving to,or showing col-
ors, fired a second shot betweeii her fore and main masts. She then
hoisted the American colors, and rounded to. Sent a boat on board,
and took possession of her. The captain coming on board with his
papers, she proved to be the Starlight, of Boston, from Fayal to Boston,
via Flores. She had a number of passengers, among others some ladies.
Put a prize crew on board of her, brought on board all the United
States seamen, seven in number, including the captain, and confined
them in irons; and ordered the prize to remain close to us during the
night. Some dark clouds hanging over the island, but the wind light
and the sea smooth. Among the papers captured were a couple of dis-
patches to the Sewards, father and son, informing them of our opera-
tions at Terceira. This small craft left Boston only six days before we
left Liverpool in the Bahama. How strangely parties meet upon the
high seas. The master was the cleverest specimen of a Yankee skipper
I have met; about 27 or 28. He avowed his intention of trying to run
the gauntlet of my shot, deprecated the war, etc
	Monday, September 8.Weather fine, with the wind from the south-
ward and eastward. At 7 a. m. stood in to the town of Santa Cruz
[island of Flores] in company with the prize, and lowered the cutter
and sent the prisoners on shore, with a note addressed to the governor.
In the meantime the governor himself, with several citizens, came on
board of us. The governor offered us the hospitalities of the island,
etc., and in return I expressed to him the hope that his fellow- citizens
who were passengers on board the prize had suffered no inconvenience
from her capture. In the afternoon gave chase and showed English
colors to a Portuguese brigantine. We then wore ship and chased a
bark in the N. W., with which we came up about sunset. She proved
to be the whaling bark Ocean Rover, from Massachusetts, forty months
out, with a cargo of 1,100 barrels of oil. Laid her to for the night, and
permitted the captain and his crew to pull in to the shore (Flores) in
his six whaleboats, the sea being smooth, the wind light offshore, and
the moon near her full. This was a novel night procession.
	Tuesday, Septemnber 9.Weather still continues fine, though cloady.
I was aroused in the midwatch (after about three hours only of sleep,
after a day of fatigue and excitement) by the announcement that a
large bark was close aboard of us. We were lying to at the time in
company with our two prizes. I wore ship very quietly and gave
chase. The chase rather got the wind of us, though we headreache

Page 789

	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	789

upon her, and at daylight I hoisted the English flag. The bark not
responding, fired a blank cartridge; she still not responding, fired a
shot astern of her, she being about two miles distant. This brought
her to, with the United States colors at her peak. Sent a boat on
board and took possession of her. She proved to be the Alert, from
New London, sixteen days from port, bound, via the Azores, Cape
Verde Islands, etc., to the Indian Ocean. Supplied ourselves from her
with some underclothing for the men, of which we stood in need, some
tobacco, etc. About 9 a. m. fired the Starlight; at 11 fired the Ocean
Rover, and at 4 p. m. fired the Alert. Boarded a Portuguese whaling
brig, the master of which I brought on board with his papers. These
proving to be regular, I dismissed him in a few minutes.
	Sent the captain and crew of the Alert ashore to the village on the
north end of Flores, in their own boats, fonr in number. Sail, ho! at
5 p. m. Filled away and gave chase to a schooner in the N. E. She
was standing for us at first, but tacked on our approach, and endeavored
to run. We had shown her the United States colors, and she had also
hoisted United States colors. But she distrusted us. A blank car-
tridge brought her round again and hove her to. Sent a boat on
board and took possession of the schooner Weather Gauge, of Province-
town, six weeks out. A bark being in sight, as soon as we could get
the schooners crew replaced by a prize crew, gave chase to the former,
stood to the northward and eastward. The two last captures supplied us
with large numbers of northern newspapers as late as thel8th of August.
	Wednesday, September 10.Last night we had a long chase after the
bark, but overhauled her about 3 a. m. this morning. Sent a boat on
board and found her to be the Danish bark Overman, from Bangkok,
East Indies, to Hamburg. The weather to-day is very fine, with the
wind moderate from the southward and eastward. In the early morn-
ing chased and caused to show colors an English ship. Hove to about
10, made the necessary arrangements, and fired the schooner Weather
Gauge, captured last evening. Filled away and made sail to the S. W.
At 10 p m. hove to off the island of Corvo.
	Thursday, September 11.Clear, with passing clouds; wind fresh from
the southward and eastward. At daylight filled away, and beat up
toward the island of Flores. At 1 p. m. having got well up under the
lee of the island, shortened sail, hove to, and sent the prisoners of the
Weather Gauge (fifteen in number; on shore, iii their own whale boats.
Observed a bark (a whaler) anchored within a cables length or so of
the shore, a Yankee, no doubt, taking refuge from capture. Filled
away, and made sail to the northward and westward. Afternoon fin
with a moderate breeze from about south. e,
	Friday, September 12.A fine, clear day, with a moderate breeze from
the southward and westward. Exercised the crew at quarters. Gave
chase to and caused to show her colors a Portuguese bark standing
to the eastward. One of the vigias, those bugbears of the sea, is in my
road to-night, and thongh I disbelieve in its existence I shall have to
tack ship to avoid it. Latitude, 400 17 20; longitnd~, 340 05 30.
	Saturday, September 13.A beautiful, clear day, with the wind from
S. S. W. Gave chase to a sail reported on the weather bow, and upon
coming up with her and heaving her to with a blank cartridge, she proved
to be the Altamaha, hermaphrodite brig (whaler) from New Bedford,
five months out. Little or no success. Captured her, put a prize crew
on board, and made sail in chase of a bark to windward, which proved
to be a Spaniard. Ran down and hove to near the prize. In the
afternoon received the prisoners on board (twenty-three iu number

Page 790

790 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

and at dark fired the prize, filled away and stood to to the K. K. W.
Latitude, 400 34; longitude, 350 24 15.
	Sunday, September 14.A beautiful, clear day, with a moderate
breeze from the westward. Last night at half past 11, I was aroused
by the report that a large ship was close on board of us. Hurried
on deck, wore ship and gave chase, the strange sail being about 2 to
2~ miles from us, partially to windward. Made all sail, held our wind,
and gradually cut him out of the wind, as well as headreached on him.
Fired a blank cartridge which he disregarded. Continued to overhaul
him, and when I had gotten on his weather beam, distant about half a
mile from him, I fired a second gun, which speedily brought him to the
wind, with his main topsail to the mast. Sent a boat on board with an
order to the officer to show me a light if he should prove to be Ameri-
can; and in a few minutes after the officer got on board, a light was
shown at the peak. Lay by him until daylight, when the captain was
brought on board. The ship proved to be the U. S. whaler Benjamin
Tucker, from New Bedford, eight months out, with about 340 barrels of
oil. Crew, thirty. Brought everybody on board, received some soap
and tobacco, and fired the ship, and made sail to the S. E.
	Monday, September 15.A fine clear day, with the wind very light
from the westward, approaching a calm, with light rain toward night.
Calking the decks, which are already quite open. Made the island of
Flores from the masthead late in the afternoon. Exercised the crew at
quarters. Shipped one of the prisoners from the last prizea Hollander.
Latitude, 430 03; longitude, 32~ 46 45.
	Tuesday, September 16.Fine clear weather, with summer clouds and
a light breeze from the southward and westward. At daylight made a
schooner on the starboardbow. Gave chase, and at7 :30 hove her to with
a blank cartridge and sent a boat on board, she showing United States
colors. She proved to be the whaling schooner Courser, of Province-
town, Mass. Took possession of her as a prize. Stood in toward Flores
within 4 or 5 miles, and sei~t all the prisoners from the last three cap-
tures on shore in their own whale boatseight in number. Number of
prisoners, sixty-eight. At S p. in., having taken some S or 10 miles dis-
tance from the land, hove the prize to, and called all hands to quarters,
and made a target of her, firing threerounds from each gun. The prac-
tice was pretty fair for green hands for the first time. We shelled the
target once and made a number of good line shots. At dark fired the
prize and made sail to the westward.
	Wednesday, September 17.Clear, with passing rain clouds, wind from
the southward and westward. At 7:30 a. m. gave chase to a sail on
the starboard bow, and at meridian came up with and took possession
of the U. S. whaling bark Virginia, twenty-one days from New Bedford.
Received papers as late as the 23d August. Got on board from the
prize a large supply of soap, candles, etc., and, after bringing the pris.
oners on board, we fired her, filled away, and made sail to the northward
and westward. Latitude, 400 03; longitude, 32~ 46 45.
	Thursday, September 18.Cloudy, with the wind fresh from the south-
ward and westward. Chased and caused to show her colors a French
brig; then wore ship and gave chase to a bark. The bark, discovering
our purpose, made all sail and tried to escape, but we came up with her
after a chase of about three hours, at 2 p. m. Hoisted the English
ensign, to which she refused to respond. Fired the starboard bow gnu
and ran up our own flag, when she shortened sail and hove to. Sent a
prize crew on board, she showing the United States ensign. Brought
the master on board. She proved to be the whaling bark Elisha Dun

Page 791

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	791

bar, of New Bedford, twenty-four days out. As it was blowing fresh
and threatening a gale of wind, we got all the prisoners ou board iu
the course of a couple of hours, aud set fire to the bark. iReefed the
topsails, and set the fore trysail with the bonnet off, and stood on a
wind on the starboard tack, to the southward and eastward. Latitude,
390 50; longitude, 350 25 45.
	Friday, September 19.Last night the wind shifted suddenly from S.
W. to N. W. and to-day it has been blowing a moderate gale of wind,
with a heavy sea from the N. W. We have been tumbling about alt
day, greatly to our discomfort, under close reefed topsails, and fore and
main trysails, with the bonnets off. The deck is more or less wet, and
the prisoners must have an uncomfortable time of it, but I have nowhere
else to put them. We are closely stowed below with our own crew.
The barometer, which had gone down to 29.85, is at 29.93 at 7 p. in.,
so the gale may be said to be broken. Got in our two waist boats. Lat-
iude, 38~ 32 35; longitude, 350 03.
	Saturday, September 20.It blew a moderate gale all day. At 8 p.
in., being near somebodys vigia, marked on the chart, and the wind
and current being such as to set us down upon it, on the starboard
tack wore ship, and put her under topsails for the night. Cloudy, with
the wind moderate, and the sea somewhat abated at lOp. m. Latitude,
370 20 24- lonoitude 360 26 30.
	Sunday, September 21.Blowing a gale of wind all day. The gale of
~he previous two days blew itself out last night, and the barometer
rose above 30. This morning a new gale set in, with a falling barome-
ter, the wind backing to about W. Mustered the crew at 11 a. in.
Weather cloudy, with passing squalls of light rain. Reduced sail to
close-reefed main topsail, close-reefed fore and main trysails, and fore
stay~ail with the bonnet off. Under this sail she was comparatively dry,
and made capital weather. Decks leaking for want of calking, but the
ship otherwise tight. Have seen no sail for the last three days. Lati-
tude, 360 35 46; longitude, 360 58 15.
	Monday, September 22.It blew a gale all the morning, moderating
toward night. Turned the reefs out of the trysails, and set the fore.
topsail. The barometer, which had gone down to 29.7, rose to 29.86
at 10p.m. We have seen no sail since these gales set in. Latitude,
350 2139; longitude, 370 26 45.
	Tuesday, September 23.The gale broke last night, and to-day we
have had a moderate breeze from N. W. to N. N. E. Exercised the crew
at quarters. Calking the decks. Nothing visible. Latitude, 340 43
15; longitude, 380 38 15.
	Wednesday, September 24.The sun having passed safely over the
line, the weather has again become settled. We have light breezes all
day from the N. W. and N. N.E. Still getting the ship in order; calking
the decks, blacking the slots, etc. Exercised the crew at quarters. We
seem to be in a desert part of the ocean. We have not seen a sail since
the evening of the 18th. Latitude, 340 52 41; longitude, 400 28 15.
	Thursday, September 25.Calm all day, a light air springing up from
the southward at nightfall. All hands at work remedying defects in the
equipment of the ship. Lowered and lengthened the fore and main gaffs.
Exercised at quarters. Latitude, 340 59 16; longitude, 410 10.
	Friday, September 2G.A beautiful day, with a moderate breeze from
the S. W., hauling to W. S. W. at nightfall, with indications of fresh-
ening. Lightning in the north and some clouds in that direction, which
dispersed, however, toward 10 p m. Latitude, 350 35 45; longitude,
4i~ 36

Page 792

792 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.


	Saturday, September 27.Cloudy, with light winds from the N. W.
Intermitted all work to-day, and gave the ship a general cleaning, of
which she stood much in need. Latitude, 370 12 15; longitude, 430
13 30.
	Sunday, September 28.Weather remarkably fine, with light winds
from N. E. to N. W. At daylight descried the first sail we have seen
since the 18th, or in ten days. The recent gales having set us to the
southward, we have been out of the track of vessels at this season of
the year. The sail standing to the eastward, in the opposite direction
from our course, and being far off and the wind light, did not chase.
Mustered the crew and inspected the ship. We begin to look a little
less like a troopship. Very light airs dnring the night. Latitude,
37040; longitude, 420.
	Monday, September 29.Weather still very clear and fine, with light
airs from the northward and eastward. We are making good use of
our delay from head winds and calms by practicing the crew at the
battery and with small arms. We exercised a division with the latter
for the first time this morning. Carpenters making armchests, and
the engineers putting down the bearings or traverses for the bow
chaser. At nightfall a moderate breeze came up from the S. S. W. and
freshened duriiig the night, so that at last we are being pushed to the
northward. Latitude, 370 09 37; longitude, 430 13 35.
	Tuesday, September 30.Morning clear, clonding towards 9 a. in., and
the wind freshening. At 8 made a sail on the lee bow. Gave chase,
and at 10 a. m. came up with and showed English colors to an iron
French bark, of Bordeauxname not made out. Kept away on our
course again N. N. W. After midday the wind freshened from the
S. W. with a thick flying scud until it blew a moderate gale. Close
reefed to it. Moderating at 10 p. in. Latitnde, 380 37; longitude,
450 03.
	Wednesday, October 1.The gale moderated during the last night, but
the weather today has been thick and rainy, with the wind from the
N. W., and a confused, rough sea. No observation for latitude. The
barometer, which had gone down to 29.8, is rising and stands at 9p. in. at
29.9.	Being some 200 miles onlyfrom the Bank of Newfoundland,we are
taking the temperature of the air and water every hoar. At 9 p. in.,
air 63, water 70. Latitude by account, 40~ 27; longitude, observation,
460 31, indicating, as compared with the reckoning, an easterly current
of some 30 miles. Single reefed the topsails at sunset.
	Thursday, October 2.The weather grows worse and worse. We have
to-day a real ugly, angry-looking sky, with dense, black, rngged clouds
and a Newfoundland northeaster. Barometer at 1 p. m. at 30.18. The
clouds are so densely packed that we have had no observation for lati-
tude and only a glimpse of the sun for chronometer, having had no lati-
tude for two days, and, being in the current of the Gulf Stream, the
most we can do is to guess at the position of the ship within 30 or 40
miles. Supposed latitude and longitude as follows: Latitude, 400 to
400 00 30; longitue, from 48~ to 480 20.
	Friday, October 3.The weather is improved to-day, and was very
fine by 10 a. m. Passed a sail in the morning watch steering to the
southward and eastward. As she was dead to windward of us did not
chase. Soon afterward made two other sail ahead and on the lee bow;
gave chase to them successively and captured both of them, they being
North American ships from New York, one for Liverpool and the other
for London (the Brilliant), laden with provisions. The cargo of one of
them, the Emily Earnum, beingcertificated as English property, released

Page 793

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	793

her and put on board of her the prisoners from the other ship, the Bril-
liant, which we burned. I sent on board the Emily Farnum also the
prisoners on board this ship, thus making once more a clean jail deliv-
ery; fired the Brilliant about nightfall and made sail, but as it fell calm
we remained in sight of the burning wreck all night. From the two
last prizes we received four new recruits, more valuable to us than the
prizes, shorthanded as we are. Latitude, 390 58; longitude, 50~.
	Saturday, October 4.Another fine day, though nearly calm. Two
sail reported soon after daylight. Gave chase to and about 10 a. m.
came up with and sent a boat on board of a Prussian bark, from New
York, with grain, for Liverpool. This bark, which had exchanged
colors with the other vessel ahead, informed us that she also was Prus-
sian; and so we discontinued the chase of the latter; indeed we could
only have chased her under steam, as it had fallen calm. Calm all day,
with a light air at nightfall. Exercised the crew at general quarters.
Latitude, 390 52; longitude, 500 41 30.
	Sunday, October 5.Beautiful, clear weather, with summer-looking
clouds, a moderate breeze from the S. W., and a smooth sea. At 4:20
a. m. a sail reported close on the lee beam. Wore ship and gave chase.
At 7 a. m. came up with and sent a boat on board of the French bark
Christophe, from New York for Cherbourg. Wore ship and made sail
to the northward and westward again. At 11 a. m. mustered the crew
and caused to be read the articles of war. While reading them a sail
was reported from aloft. Kept away for her and niade all sail. At 1
p. in., finding that the chase wa~ likely to be a long one and in the
wrong direction (the chase steering about E. by N.), abandoned the
pursuit and wore and made sail to the northward and westward again.
Later in the afternoon chased and caused to show her colors an Old-
enham brig. The wind freshening from the S. W., with a falling
barometer, took the bonnets off the trysails, and at sunset a single
reef in the topsails. Latitude, 40~ 19 25; longitude, 5i~ 14.
	Monday, October 6.The wind increased last night to a moderate
gale aiid the weather became thick and rainy. Taken aback on the
port tac1~ this morning; the wind hauling from W. to N. W. Wore
ship to the westward at 8 a. in. No observation for position. Lati-
tude, account, 410 02 11; longitude, account, 530 50.
	Tuesday, October 7.Weather moderated aiid became calm after 10
a. in. At 4 a. m. gave chase to a sail, amid came up with and caused to
be hove to an American bark. Sent a boat on board for the master
and his papers. She pi oved to be the Wave Crest, of and from New
York, for Cardiff, laden with grain. There being no evidence of the
neutrality of the cargo, condemned both ship and cargo. in the after-
noon made a target of her, and afterwards burned her. Made sail to
the northward and westward at 4 p. m. Just before dark another sail
was discovered from aloft, to w hich we gave chase. At 9 p. in., there
being a beautiful moonlight, with a fresh breeze from the S. W., we
came up with and hove to a brigantine. Sent a boat on board of her.
She proved to be the American brigantine Dunicirk, from New York,
with grain, for Lisbon. There being no evidence of the neutral owner-
ship of the cargo, condemned both ship and cargo, and at 11 p. m.
burned them. Found on board this prize a number of Portuguese Test-
amnents, tracts, etc. On the back of one of the tracts was the following
endorsement:
	Portuguese tracts from the American Tract Society, for distribution among Portu-
guese passengers, and to give, upon the coast, to visitors from the shore, etc. When
in port, please keep conspicuously on the cabin table for all corners to read, but be
very careful not to take any ashore, as the laws do not allow it

Page 794

794 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	A pen had been run throngh the last injunction. It thus appears
that the Yankee ships are engaged in smngglipg prohibited religions
literature, along with their cargoes, into the countries they visit. The
following endorsement was pasted on the cover a little lower down:

	As may be convenient please report (by letter, if necessary) anything of interest
which may occur in connection with the distribution; also take any orders for
Bibles and forward to John S. Pierson, marine agent New York Bible Society, No. 7
Beekman street.

	Wednesday, October 8.f he wind went round from S. W. again to
N. W. and N. E. and became very light. We have experienced for the
last two or three days a strong southeasterly current, say 2 knots per
honr. We have a hard struggle to get to the westward. No observa-
tion for latitude. Latitnde, ID. IR., 4l~ longitude, ID. IR., 550 43.
Longitude, chronometer, 540 37, worked with assumed latitude.
	Thursday, October 9.The wind went round to S. W. again; weather
became clear. Got observations for position. At 1:30 p. in., Sail, ho!
Gave chase, and just before sunset came up with and sent a boat on
board the packet ship Tonawanda (Copes Liverpool line). Brought
the master on board with his papers. No evidence of neutral owner-
ship of the cargo. Condemned ship and cargo. But what shall I do
with thems She has 70 passengers on board, 30 of whom are women.
Determined to keep the ship in company for a few days, iii hopes of
making some other capture, on board which I could dispose of the pris-
oners, and in the meantime took a ransom bond of the master, in case
I should make up my mind finally to release him. While we were
boarding the Tonawanda descried another sail from the deck. Gave
chase, the Tonawanda, in charge of a prize master, following. At 8:30
came up with and sent a boat on board of an English brig from Man.
zanilla for England. The prize in company during the night. The
master having reported that one of the black waiters on board his ship
was a slave, from Delaware, had him brought on board and entered as
one of the crew, a waiter in the officers messes. Latitude, 400 03 41;
longitude, 540 38 30.
	Friday, October 10.Wind from the N. W., with the weather thick-
ening and beginning to look ugly, though the barometer does not indicate
much wind. Approved the proceedings of the court-martial in the
case of George Forrest, a deserter from the Sumter, found on board the
Dunkirk, sentencing him to serve without pay for the remainder of his
term; and reduced Fisher, a coxswain, for being drunk a second time,
after warning. The weather broke away suddenly at meridian and
became very fine, the wind hauling to the N. E. Brought the master
of the prize ship Tonawanda on board, as a hostage to secure the keep-
ing company with us of that ship, and sent on board of her all the
prisoners of the last two ships burned. At 10 p. in., there being a
bright moon, made a sail on the lee bow. Wore ship, and ran down
and hove to a fine clipper-looking ship and sent a boat on board of her.
She proved to be a Mecklenburg ship, from New York for Lisbon.
Latitude, 410 13 38; longitude, 530 45.
	Saturday, October 11.Breeze light, and weather inclined to be over-
cast. At daylight a ship reported on the weather quarter. As she
was some 15 miles distant and dead to windward did not chase.
Weather broke away at 11 a. m. and became fine. At 1:30 a sail
reported running down before the wind. Tacked and waited for her,
and when she came within distance fired a blank cartridge and hove
her to. She proved to be the North American ship Manchester, of and
from New York, bound for Liverpool. There being no evidence amon

Page 795

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	795

her papers of the neutral ownership of the cargo, transferred the crew
to the Tonawanda and fired her at about 10 p. m. Latitude, 41~ 08
55; longitude, 550 26.
	Sunday, October 12.The wind has gone round again from the S. W.
to northward and eastward, with bad weathercloudy, and rainy, and
dark; as usual, no observation for latitude. Latitude, ID. IR., 41~ 42;
Longitude, ID. IR., 56~ 48.
	of the enemys gunboats, extracted from the New York
Herald of October 5: One gun, 10; two guns, 29; three guns, 32; four
guns, 36; five guns, 34; six guns, 28; seven guns 21 ei
nine guns, 13; total, 192. Of this whole	, , ght guns, 2;
number there are only 13
superior in force to myself. The first set of propeller gunboats, built
after the war, are said to be indifferent. The second set, very fine and
heavily armed. The side-wheel boats not very fast and only tol-
erable.
	Monday, October 13.A real dirty gulf day, with the wind from theS.
E. to the S. W. and the weather squally, thick, and rainy. At 11 a. m.
made a sail on the weather bow and gave chase. As we came up with
her we observed that although she was running free she was under
topsails only, which seemed to indicate that she was either a whaler
or a vessel of war. Several times the dense rain shut out from sight
both her and the Tonawanda. At length, near nightfall, we had
approached the stranger within 4 or 5 miles and as he had a pendant
flying we naturally took him for a ship of war. Hove to on the star-
board tack. The sail wore down for us. Called all hands to quarters
and loaded the guns, which was done very creditably to my new crew.
Showed English colors, the stranger hoisting Spanish. Perceiving
by this time that she was not a ship of war, secured the guns, and per.
mitted the stranger to pass on. Ran down near the Tonawanda, and
as we had every prospect of a thick, stormy night, I concluded to let
the prize depart with her prisoners without further detention, taking
from the master a ransom bond in the sum of $80,000. (Copes, owners.)
The prize filled away and made sail just at dark. Filled away our.
selves to-the northward and westward. No observation. Latitude,
assumed, 400 30; longitude, assumed, 590 28.
	Tuesday, October 14.Fresh winds from the S. W. with some sea on.
Weather variable, looking well and i11 by turns. Barometer, 29.5,
fluctuating a little. Last night at 11:30 a ship passed us going with
great speed before half a gale of wind. Did not give chase on account
of the weather. At 3:30 this morning another sail was descried on the
port beam. Gave chase, dead to leeward; came up with the chase after
about three hours pretty close run. She proved to be a Danish ship.
This ship stood two guns before heaving to. There being still another
sail to windward of us, running down nearly before the wind, hove to
to await her approach. She proved to be a French schooner; and so
we w6re ship and stood to the northward and westward. In the after-
noon lay to to await the approach of a third sail, running down upon
ns. She proved to be an English ship from St. John New
Latitude, 41~ 21 12; longitude, 590 31 30.	Brunswick.
Wednesday, October 15.Blowing half a gale of wind from the S.
W.; weather clear, with an occasional rain sq nail. At 7 a. in. dis-
covered a sail running down for us. Awaited her approach and hove
her to with a gun at about 8:30. She proved, npon being boarded, to
be- the North American bark Lamplighter, of Boston, from New York
to Gibraltar, with a cargo of tobacco. There being nothing in her
papers denoting neutral ownership of the cargo, burned her. The se

Page 796

796 OPERATIONS OF THE ~


being quite heavy, the boats had a rough time of it getting on board.
Latitude, 410 32 47; longitude, 590 17 45.
	Thursday, October 16.The bad weather of the last four or five days
culminated to-day in one of the severest gales of wind I have ever
experienced. It did not last a great while, the whole being over in
about four hours, but the wind blew furiously for about half of this
time, forcing the ship down several streaks in the water, although she
was only under the triangular storm staysail, the ma in yard having
been carried away (the main brace bumkin first going) and the main
topsail and fore staysail blown to ribbons. We lost also the lee quarter
and stern boats, both stove by the force of the sea. A very heavy
cross sea was raised, and the ship labored in and was pounded by it
at a terrible rate. The gale was evidently a cyclone, though probably
not of very great diameter, and the vortex of the gale passed over us.
We took the wind at S. W., which hauled to about S., and after blow-
ing heavily, lulled for half or three-quarters of an hour; then hauled
in a few minutes to about N. N. W. and blew in the furious manner
described. The barometer sank as low as 28.04. At 2p. m. the barome-
ter had risen to 29.70, but fell again a little and then rose again gradually.
The rise and fall of the barometer were both very rapid. Daring the
violence of the gale the scud flew very low and with great rapidity,
and some rain fell, though not a great deal. The surface of the sea
was one sheet of foam and spray (the latter blinding us) from the vio-
lence of the wind. In the afternoon sent down the two pieces of the
broken main yard and stripped the main topsail yard of the fragments
of its sail. I must capture another ship now directly, to enable me to
repair damages and replace my boats. No observation for position.
Rolling and tumbling about during the night in the rough and irregu-
lar sea raised by the gale. A curious result of the gale was a huge
knot into which a strip of the main topsail, the clewhine, and chain
sheet had tied themselves in a hundred involutions, defying all extri-
cation but by the knife. Latitude, D  R., 420 16; longitude, 590 18.
	Friday, October 17.Sea somewhat smoother, but the weather still
very bad. The wind is from the S.E. again, and the sky is heavily
overcast in every direction, and we have occasional squalls of rain.
Barometer inclined to settle again, and the wind to haul to the S.W.
and thence probably as usual to the N.W. There would seem to be an
almost continual gyration of the winds in that portion of the sea in
which we have been for the last two weeks, and but little steady sun-
shine. No observation again to day for position. At 11 a. m. ran
down for a ship visible on our starboard beam. She proved to be Eng-
lish. Wore ship again to the westward. Latitude, D. 11., 420 06;
longitude, 590 46. Setting up the main rigging, which had become
loosened by the terrible strain upon it in the late gale. Lightning
from the S. W. to N. W.
	&#38; tturday, October 18.The weather, which I had hoped would become
better after the gale, seems to grow worse and worse. We had an
ugly looking, dark night last night with the wind fresh from the
S. W. and rain. We kept a bright lookout to prevent being run over
by some ship running down before tIme wind. In the morning watch
the wind hauled to the N. W., with the weather still thick and rainy.
Employed fishing our broken main yard for temporary use. An ugly
sea on still. No observation. The weather showed some signs of
lighting up about noon, but the wind freshened soon from the N. W.
and blew up thick and hard looking again. Supposed latitude, 410 25;
supposed longitude, 590 10

Page 797

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	797

	Sunday, October 19.Weather better to-day, there being some relue~
tant sunshine. Loosed and dried the sails, and got up wet clothing,
etc. Mustered the crew at 11 a in., but set them at work immediately
afterwards, getting the main yard up to its place, and cleaning the
arms, which had all been afloat in the gale, and had become rusted.
The necessity of the case will excuse the work on Sunday. Latitude,
400 21 25- longitude, 620 08.
	Monday, October 20.More dirty weather; wind from the westward,
hauling northward, with rain, rain, rain. At 3:30 a. in., descried a
sail standing to the eastward. Wore ship and gave chase, and at 8:30
fired a gun, when the chase hoisted English colors. At 11, showed
English colors to an hermaphrodite brig running to the northward and
eastward. She showed Dutch colors. Verily we are in luck, since out
of the eleven sail last overhauled, nine have been neutrals; and that,
too, almost in American waters. At meridian, a heavy cloud came up
from the west, and burst upon us in a squall of wind and rain; and a
gale of wind followed, which blew the remainder of the day. Bar-
ometer 29.64. A large sail .passed us to windw~ird. Wore ship, but
did not chase, on accouut of the gale. We have thus had a week of
consecutive bad weather, near the middle of Octobera mouth gener-
ally remarkable for its fine weather on the American coast. Latitude,
400 28; longitude, 620 40 45.
	Tuesday, October 21.The first fine morning we have had for ten days
past. The northwester of yesterday was the first dry wind of the kimid
we have had off this coast, the rotary winds generally becoming clear
in the N. E. The winds have rotated with singular regularity ever
since we reached the meridian of Cape Race, generally going entirely
round the compass every two days, or two and a half. Chased and
spoke an English bark, from New York, ten days out, for Queenstown.
Nearly calm all day; ship rolling about in the sea left by the northwest
gale. Toward nightfall the wind began to go round again, hauling to
southward. Latitude 40018 04; longitude, 620 40 15. A large sail
in smght nearly all day, but could not chase her on account of the calm.
	Wednesday, October 22.We are about 100 miles to the southward
and east~vard of Georges Bank, and verily we seem to be in the very
caldron in which all the storms of the North Atlantic are brewed.
Notwithstanding the calm, clear, quiet day yesterday, it is blowing a
gale of wind to-day from the S. W., with the barometer at 29.60 and
f~lhing. Two large sail have passe~1 us, and we have been unable to
chase them on account of gale. Latitude, 400 16 by accountno
observation; longitude, 64017 by accountno observation. The gale
imicreased from about 9 a. in., and has blown very heavily for about six
hours, raising a heavy sea. Wind for the first five hours about S. by
W., hanling at 4 p. in. to the westward. At 8 p. in. wind N. W. The
barometer fell to 29.40. Hove the ship to, under close-reefed main try.
sail and fore staysailhauling down the latter to bring her more up to
the seaand, as the strength of the gale passed, setting the fore trysail.
The fore rigging having stretched, swiftered it in. Rolling and plung-
ing into the sea, head and stern, and taking tons of water on the deck
all night.
	Thursday, October 23.The gale is broken, but the bad weather con-
tinues. We just saved the latitude at noon by getting the sun for a
few minutes between two dense banks of clouds, which soon afterwards
closed and set into rain. Barometer settling again. At daylight des~
cried a brig to leeward; ran down for, under close topsails. She proved
to be English. Two other sails were reported from aloft, but as the

Page 798

798 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

were running off to the eastward did not chase, we having drifted 60
miles to the S. E. during the blow of the last twenty-four hours,and
my great desire being to get to the westward. Latitude, 390 34 50
longitude, 63~ 26. About 4 p. m. a large ship was descried run-
ning to the eastward under main royal, notwithstanding the freshness
of the breeze. Bore away a few points and waited for her. Hoisted
English blue when the stranger showed North American colors.
Hauled downthe English ensign, hoisted our own, and when the sail
was within half a mile or less, fired a bow gun. She immediately hove
to, when we sent a boat on board of her and brought her master on
board with his papers. Brought the crew on board and fired the prize
at about 10 p. in.; when we filled away. We have experienced a current
of 2 knots and more per hour to the eastward and southward and east-
ward for the last two days, so that what with the gales and the cur-
rents we are more than a degree to the eastward of where we were two
days ago.	The Lafayetteship and cargo condemned.


	The cargo of this ship was condemned by me as enemys property,
notwithstanding there were depositions of the shippers that it had
been purchased by them on neutral account. These ex-parte statements
are precisely such as every unscrupulous merchant would prepare to
deceive his enemy and save his property from capture. There are two
shipping houses in the case; that of Craig &#38; Nicoll, and that of Mont-
gomery Bros Messrs Craig &#38; Nicoll say that the grain shipped by
them belongs to Messrs. Shaw &#38; Finlay, and to Messrs. Hamilton,
Megault, and Thompson, all of Belfast, to which port the ship is bound,
but the grain is not consigned to them, and they could not demand
possession of it, under the bill of lading, it being consigned to order,
thus leaving the control of the hands of the shippers. The shippers,
further, instead of sending this grain on freight in a general ship, con-
signed to the owners, they paying the freight, charter the whole ship,
and stipulate themselves for the payment of the freight. If this prop
erty had been bona fide the property of the parties in Belfast, named
in the depositions, it would undoubtedly have gone consigned to them,
under a bill of lading authorizing them to demand possession of it, and
the agreement with the ship would have been that the consignees and
owners should pay the freight upon delivery. Even if this property
were purchased, as pretended, by Messrs. Craig &#38; Nicoll, for the parties
named, still their not consigning i1~to them, and delivering to them the
proper bill of lading passing the possession, left the property under
the dominion of Craig &#38; Nicoll, and as such liable to capture. The
property attempted to be covered by the Messrs. Montgomery, is
shipped by Montgomery Bros., of New York, and consigned to Mont-
gomery Bros. in Belfast; and the title to the property so far as appears
from the bill of lading is in the latter house, or in the branch house in
New York. Further, the mere formal papers of a ship and cargo prove
nothing, unless properly verified, and in this case the master of the
ship, although a part owner of the ship, and whose duty it was upon
taking in a cargo in time of war to be informed of all the circumstances
attending it and connected with the ownership, knew nothing except
what he learned from the face of the papers. These certificates there-
fore were pronounced a fraud, and cargo as well as the ship condemned.
	Third Phillimore, 610612, to the effect that if the goods are going for
account of the shipper, or subject to his order or control, as in this case,
the property is not divested in transitu. The goods shipped by Craig
&#38; {icoll were consigned to their order, as has been seen

Page 799

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.
799
	As to the Montgomerys, see 3 Phullimore, 605, to the effect that if a
person be a partner in a house of trade in an enemys country he is, as
to the consignors and trade of that house, deemed an enemy, and his
share is liable to confiscation as such, notwithstanding his own resi-
dence is in a neutral country, etc. Further, the property consigned to
Montgomery Bros., even admitting the Belfast house not to be a part-
ner in the New York house, is liable to the same objection as in the
case of Craig &#38; Nicoll, since although the property is described as
belonging to a party in Sligo, there is no bill of lading among the papers
authorizing that party to demand the possession. The property is not
divested, therefore, in transitu.
	Third Phillimore, 599, to the effect that further proof is always
necessary where the master can not swear to the ownership of the prop-
erty, as in this case. And as I can not send my prizes in for adjudi-
cation, I must of necessity condeirin in all cases where further proof
is necessary, since the granting of further proof~~ proceeds on the
presumption that the neutrality of the cargo is not sufficiently estab-
lished; and where the neutrality of the property does not fully appear
from the ships papers and the masters deposition, I have the right to
act upon the presumption o~ enemys property.

	Friday, October 24.A fine day, though with a fresh and cool norther.
At 10:30 caused a sail, which we had overhauled, to show English
colors. She proved to be (as seen on her stern, my usual mode of veri-
fying the flag, though I sometimes board) from St. Andrews ,NewBruns-
wick. it was smooth enough to-day, for the first time in ten days, to
exercise the men at the battery. Latitude, 40 ~ 04; longitude, 62~ 05;
strong easterly current during the twenty-four hours. I perceive by
the newspapers found on board the prize that the enemy has learned
of our captures off the Banks of Newfoundland. Of course he is in full
pursuit by this time.
	ASvaturday, October 25.Weather clear and cloudy; wind light, from the
eastward, and sea becoming smooth. Sighted a sail standing about
north, free, as on this course; she was proably bound for some port in
Nova Scotia; presumed her to be English, and did not chase. Latitude,
390 57; longitude, 030 18 15; a current of aboat a knot an hour, east.
	Sunday, October 26.Wind from the eastward; light in the morn-
ing, becoming quite fresh in the afternoon. A bark passed to wind-
ward of us which we chased for a short while, but finding the chase
likely to b~ a long one and to the eastward discontinued it. Another
sail meanwhile having been discovered on our weather quarter, we
gave chase to it. It passed some 4 miles to windward of us, and I had
but little hope of overhauling her. I tried the effect of a shot or two
in her direction, and to my surprise she hove to. Beat up to her, she
showing North American colors; boarded amid took possession of her.
She proved to be the schooner Grenshaw, from New York, three days
out, bound for Glasgow. Brought the crew on board and burned her,
and filled away on our course to the westward. Latitude, 40~ 11 28;
longitude, 640 32 15. Mustered the crew. We learn by the papers
that several of the enemys gunboats are in pursuit of us; probably
gomme off to the Banks of Newfoundland, tIme Vanderbilt among the
number. While they are running from New York I am running
toward it.
Case of the schooner Crenshawship and cargo candemned.
	This vessel was captured under the North American flag, and had
on board a North American register; there is, therefore, no questio

Page 800

800 OPERXTIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

as to the ship. There has been an attempt to cover the cargo, but
without success. The shippers are Francis Macdonald &#38; Co., of the
city of New York; and a Mr. James ilutchison, also of New York,
deposes before the British consul that the goods specified in the
annexed bills of lading were shipped on board the schooner Crenshaw
for and on account of subjects of her Britannic Majesty, and that the
said goods are wholly and bona fide the property of British subjects.
No British subject is named in the deposition, and no person is there-
fore entitled to claim under it. Further, even admitting the goods to
have been purchased on British account, the shipper has not divested
himself of the possession by a proper consignment, under a proper bill
of lading. The property is consigned to the order of the shipper, which
leaves it entirely under his control, and it having left the port of New
York as his property, the title can not be changed while the property
is in transitu.
	As to the first point, to wit, the failure to point out some particular
British owner of the property, see 3 Phillimore, 596, to the following
effect:

	If in the ships papers property in a voyage from an enemys port be described
for neutral account, this is such a general mode as points to no designation what-
ever~ and under such a description, no person can say that the cargo belongs to hini,
or can entitle himself to the possession of it, as his property, etc.

	And as to the second point, to wit, the failure on the part of the ship-
per to divest himself of the title and control of the property, by a proper
bill of lading, see 3 Phillimore, 610612, as follows, viz:

	In ordinary shipments of goods, unaffected by the foregoing principles, the ques-
tioa of proprietary interest often turns on minute circumstances and distinctions,
the general principle being that if they are going for account of the shipper, or
subject to his order or control, the property is not divested in transitu, etc.


	Monday, October 27.Another gale of wind! In the midwatch last
night the barometer commenced falling, and by 3 this afternoon it had
gone down to 29.33, where it remained stationary for awhile and then
began to rise slowly, being at 29.45 at 8 p. m. The wind began to blow
freshly from the south, and hauled gradually to the westward, the barom-
eter commencing to rise when the wind was about W. S. W. In the early
part of the gale we had the weather very thick, with heavy squalls of
rain, the weather clearing about nightfall, with the wind from W. S.
W. In the midst of a heavy squall of wind and rain, and with a heavy
sea on, we discovered a brig close aboard of us on our weather quarter,
but as we were on opposite tacks we soon increased our distance from
each other. Wore ship and hove to, nuder close-reefed trysails, on the
starboard tack. Being about a degree to the southward of Georges
Bank, got a cast of the lead at 7 p. in., with no bottom at 85 fathoms.
Latitude ,39047I; longitude, 680 06, a little over 200 miles from New
York.
	Tuesday, October 28.Weather cloudy, with light winds from the
north, hauling to the eastward. The heavy sea from the effects of the
gale of yesterday, continued all day, rolling and tumbling us about
and keeping the deck flooded with water, In the morning watch
descried a brig running off to the southward. She being some distance
off and running in the wrong direction, did not chase. Soon afterwards
another sail was reported to the westward, standing in our direction.
Shaped a course to head her off, and at 11 a  in., having approached
her within half a mile, hoisted the English blue. The stranger show-
ing the North American colors, hove him to with a gun, and hoiste

Page 801

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	801

our own colors. Brought the master on board with his papers, and
finding the cargo condemnable, got the crew on board, and fired tue
ship and filled away on our course. The prize proved to be the bark
Lauraetta, of Boston, from New York for Madeira and the Mediter-
ranean. Received papers as late as the 24th. The intelligence of 6~ur
captures (as late as the Brilliant) seems to have created great alarm
for the safety of commerce in New York. Latitude, 390 18 47; longi-
tude, (370 35/.

Case of the Lauraettaship and cargo condemned.

	This ship being under American colors, with an American (United
States) register, no question arises as to the ship. There are two
shippers of the cargo, Messrs. Chamberlain, Phelps &#38; Co., and Mr. II.
~J. Burden, both houses of New York City. Chamberlain, Phelps &#38; Co.
ship 1,424 barrels of flour and a lot of pipe staves, to be delivered at
Gibraltar or Messiuia, to their own order; and 225 kegs of nails to be
delivered at Messina, to Mariano Costarelli. The bill of lading for the
flour and staves has the following endorsement, sworn to before a
notary:

	State, city, and county of New York: Louis Contencin, being duly sworn, says
that be is clerk with Chamberlain, Phelps &#38; Co., and that part of the merchandise
in the within bill of lading is the property of subjects of the King of Italy.

	This certificate is of no force or effect for its generality. It points to
no one as the owner of the merchandise, and no person could claim it
under the certificate. (See 3 Phillimore, 596.) Further, the property
is consigned to the order of the shipper. The title therefore remains in
him and can not be divested in transitu. (See 3 Phillimore 610612.)
The contingent destination of this property, too, shows that it was
property for a market. It was to be delivered either at Gibraltar or
IMessina, as the shipper might determineprobably upon advices by
steamer, before the ship should reach her destination. She was to
stop, as we have seen, at iMadeira, which would give ample time for the
decision.
	The bill of lading for the 225 kegs of nails has a similar endorsement
except that it is averred that the whole of the property belongs to sub-
jects of the King of Italy. It is not sworn that the property belongs to
(ostarelli, the consignee, and for aught that appears Costarelli is the
agent of the shipper to receive this consignment on his (the shippers)
account. The presumption being that, notwithstanding a consigumeut
in due form by an enemy shipper to a neutral, the property is enemys
property until the contrary is shown. The consignment alone does not
show the property to be vested in Costarelli; and the certificate does
not indicate him as the owner. Although Costarelli could demand pos-
session of the goods, under this consignment, he could not claim to hold
them as his property under the certificate. There is therefore no evi-
dence to show that lie is not the mere agent of the shipper. What
renders this conclusion still more clear is that if the goods had really
belonged to Costarelli it wonld have been so stated in the certificate.
Why say that the goods belonged to subjects of the King of Italy,
when the consignee was the real owned
	The property shipped by H. J. Burden consists of 998 barrels of flour
and 290 boxes of herring, and is consigned to Charles H. Blandy, esq.,
at Funchal, Madeira. The shipper, H. J. Burden, makes time following
affidavit before the British consul in New York, to wit, that all and
singular the goods specified in the annexed bill of lading were shipped
	123A	5

Page 802

802 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.


by H. J. Burden in the bark Lauraetta, for and ou account of II. J.
Burden, subjects of her Britannic Majesty. Mr. Burden may be a very
good subject of her Britannic Majesty, but he describes himself as of
42 Beaver street, New York, and seems to lose sight of the fact that
his domicile for the purposes of trade in the enemys country makes him
an enemy, quoad all his transactions iu that country. Further, if the
H. J. Burden, the shipper, is not one and the same person with the H.
J. Burden for whom the property is claimed, then there is nothing in
the papers to show that the property is vested in the latter, since it is
not consigned to him, nor is it shown that the consignee, Charles H.
Blandy, esq., is his agent. The presumption, in the absence of proof, is
that the consignee is the agent of the shipper.

	Wednesday, October 29.Cloudy day, ending with rain and a N. E.
wind. At 10 a. m. hove to and let down the propeller and put the
ship under steam. Chased and overhauled a Dutch bark, and toward
nightfall came up with the North American brigantine Baron de Gas-
tine, from Bangor, with lumber for Cardenas. The vessel being old
and of little value, I released on a ransom bond and converted her
into a cartel, sending some forty-five prisoners on board of herthe
crews of the three last ships burned. Stood N. W. by W.
	Thnrsday, October 30.Last night the N. E. wind freshened and
raised some sea. This morning it is blowing half a gale with a wild-
looking sky; several sail in sight, among others the Dutch bark we
overhauled yesterday. Weather clearing somewhat by noon. This
morning the engineer reported that, upon inspection of the coal bunkers,
he was of opinion that we had no more than four hays coal on board.
Being still 220 miles froni New York I was obliged to abandon for the
present the idea of appearing off that city, and making a capture or two
in the very presence of the enemy. Let the fires go down, lowered the
propeller, and made sail to the southward and eastward for our coal
depot. Total captures to-day, 21; burned, 18; released as cartels 3.
Latitude, 390 18 30; longitude, 690 12.
	Friday, October 31.A fine day, with a pleasant breeze from the
southward and westward, and summer-looking clouds. Standing to
southward and eastward. We have passed out of the track of com-
merce, and have seen nothing to-day. Latitude, 370 51 50; longitude,
67~ 34.
	Saturday, November 1.A fine, clear day, with light airs nearly all day.
Overhauled two sail, a French and an English bark. Made sail at
nightfall again on our course. Latitude, 360 15; longitude, 65~ 55 15.
	Sunday, November 2.A fine day,with light winds from the S. E. At
8:30 gave chase to a ship to the IN. W. At 11 mustered the crew and
read the articles of war. At 11:30 hoisted the North American flag,
being some 4 miles distant from the chase, the chase responding with
the same colors. At 12:30 hove the chase to with a gun; and havii~g
come up with her, sent a boat on board and brought the master along-
side with his papers. She proved to be the whaling ship Levi Starbuck,
five days out of New Bedford, bound on a voyage of thirty months to
the Pacific Ocean. Received from her snch articles as we needed,
bronght the crew on board, consisting of twenty-nine persons, and a
little after nightfall set fire to her, and filled away to the southward.
Papers to the 28th ultimo. No news of importance; the armies on the
Potomac remaining in statu quo. The Yankee fleet is bestirring itself
in our pursuit. Latitude, 360 13 26; longitude, 660 01 15.
	Monday, November 3.Clear and cloudy, with banks of clouds in th

Page 803

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	803

N.	W. and N. E. Wind light from the eastward, hauling to S. at 9 a.
m.	Nearly cairn at meridian, and the ship rolling about in a confnsed
and heavy sea, coming mostly from the S. E. The weather is quite
warm, and the barometer has gone down to 29.60. There is doubtless
a gale approaching. Latitude, 350 17; lougitade, 670 11. Strong
westerly current for the last twenty-four hours, probably W. S. W.
	Tuesday, November 4.The wind hauled to the N. W. and thence N.
last night, and blew a fresh gale all night. This morning the weather
is cloudy, with occasional clear patches in the sky; making 9 and 10
knots S. E. Barometer nearly up to 30 again. Afternoon, sky obscured
in every direction by dull, heavy looking black clouds; wind fresh from
the N. Latitude, 340 27 17; longitude, 630 30. We received from
the last prize a large number of cabbages and turnips, very necessary
antiscorbutics for the crew, as they have been now some seventy days
on salt diet.
	Wednesday, November 5.Cloudy, gloomy looking day, with the wind
fresh from the east. We have passed Bermuda, the still vexed, and
have been fortunate enough to make our casting jnst in time; as we
have been unable to head higher than S. by E. all day. We have been
passing through a track of the sea but seldom crossed by a sail; but
about day after to-morrow we shall enter the track of vessels from the
Capes Horn and Good Hope for New York, and also that of outward-
bound West India vessels, Latitude, 310 34 11; longitude, 61~ 27.
	Thursday, November G.Morning heavy and cloudy, with a moderate
breeze from the southward and eastward, hauling to the S. S. W. at night-
fall, and the weather clearing and becoming pleasant. At 4 a. m.
aroused by a report of a sail in the N. W. Gave chase,there being a
bright moon, and in the course of half an hour hove the chase to with
a gun, and sent a boat on board of her. She proved to be the French
bark Susanne, from Laguna, with logwood, for Havre. The master,
having let his chronometer run down and not knowing his position,
sent me a request for the longitude, which I sent him. Wore ship and
brought by the wind to the southward. Latitude, 290 05; longitude,
61~ 22.
	Friday, November 7.Cloudy and clear, and squally and rainy, with
the wind about south, or nearly dead ahead. We are, however, mak-
ing casting, which is well. Latitude, 29~ 03 55; longitude, 590 22
45.
	Saturday, November 8.Fine, clear weather, with the wind moderate
from the eastward. In the midwatch a sail was reported, a schooner
standing south. Wore ship (1:30 a~ in.) and gave chase. Soon after
daylight, the chase being some 5 miles dead to windward of us, a ship
was discovered standing to the northward and westward. Discon-
tinued the chase of the schooner, wore ship, and gave chase to the
ship. At 10 a. ni., the second chase having approached within a mile
of us (we having United States colors flying), hove her to with a gun,
and a change of flags. Seut a boat and brought the master on board.
She proved to be the ship T. B. Wales, of Boston, from Calcutta for
Boston. There being no claim of neutral property among the papers,
and the master having no knowledge on the subject, except that the
linseed belonged to the owner of the ship, condemned both ship and
cargo. A large portion of this cargo was consigned to the house of
Baring Bros., Boston, among which were 1,704 bags of saltpeter, con-
traband of ~war, which would have condemned all the property of the
Barings, even if proof of ownership had been found on board, which
was not. We are to be embarrassed with two females, and some cliii

Page 804

804 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

dren, the master having his wife with him, and a passenger and wife.
I shall bestow them upon the ward room, having a couple of state-
rooms vacated for them. Poor women! They are suffering for the sins
of their wicked countrymen who are waging this murderous war upon
us. Latitude, 290 15; longitude, 570 57. Another sail was descried
from aloft about nightfall, and a light was seen after night, but we
did not get hold of the sail. Just at nightfall, having gotten all the
prisoners on board from the prize, and got her main yard on board to
replace ours, carried away, we set fire to her and filled away on our
course. Nine of the crew of this ship volunteered, and were shipped
as part of our own crewa prize more valuable than the prize itself.
	Sunday, November 9.A fine, clear day, with the wind from the east-
ward, giving us an hour or so of calm, which is probably all the calm
we shall experience, as I think we already have the trades in
latitude 27A [270 30]. My menage has become quite home-like with the
presence of women and the merry voices of children. We have had a
quiet Sabbath day, there being nothing in sight. Mustered the crew.
We are now quite strong, numbering 110 men. Latitude, 270 51 42;
longitude, 580 24 30.
	Jllionday, November 10.Weather fine, with an occasional light shower
of rain, and wind from N. W. hauling to N. N. E. Too much sea on to
exercise the battery. Nothing seen. Latitude, 25~ 40 14; longitude,
570 50.
	Tuesday, November 11.I was mistaken in supposing that I had
taken the trades day before yesterday, as we are iii the calm belt
to-day, with the wind light and variable. In the morning watch
descried a sail to the northward of us. Wore ship and awaited her
approach, as she was running to the southward and eastward. At 10
a. m. shon ed United States colors to the chase, which responded with
the English. It being calm, we sent a boat on board of her. She wa~
from New York (fourteen days) bound for Deinerara. No news and no
newspapers. Scraping and painting boats, etc. Latitude, 240 05 36;
longitude, 570 36 30. Another sail was reported at 3:30p.m. Hauled
up S. E. for her and at 8 p. in., having approached each other (in the
darkness) within about a mile, fired a blank cartridge, and lowered a
boat (the wind being very light). The sail not heaving to, fired a shot
over her, which had t~me desired effect. She proved to be an English
bark from Demerara for Cork. Had lost her mate a day or two ago
with yellow fever, and the master and another of the crew were down
with it. As we approached this vessel, another light became suddenly
visible in the uncertain darkness, apparently a large ship. Called all
hands to quarters. It soon appeared, however, that the second light
was on board of the brig we had boarded in the morning. Hoisted up
our boat and made sail on our course, S. by E.
	Wednesday, Nqvember 12.Still in the calms. Wind light and shift-
ing, and light squalls of rain. The English brig of yesterday still in
company. Latitude, 22~ 58 13; longitude, 57~ 37 45. A heavy
shower of rain in the afternoon, wind con tinning light and baffling,
with intervals of calm.
	Thursday, November 13.A clear, pleasant day, with fleecy, trade-
looking clouds, butthe wind light from the south, from which quarter it
has been steady for five or six hours. The weather is becoming warm,
and the sun begins to draw the pitch out of the deck. Painting ship
outside, and biding our time~~ for the trades~~ to come along. Lati-
tude, 220 08 08; longitude, 570 43 30.
	Friday, November 14.Heavy cloud banks around us in the morn

Page 805

	OPERATIONS OF THE CI~UISERSCONFEDERATE.	805

ing, with the wind from the southward and squally with rain, clearing
at noon. Just at 8 p. m. last night a sail passed us suddenly on the
port (opposite tack). Wore ship immediately, but the strange sail
shooting into a dense rain cloud was lost to view in a few minutes.
Hauled the ship by the wind. At 10 p. m. descried a sail on our port
beam, the same doubtless which had passed us in the gloom of the
night, a few hours before. The weather now cleared and the night
became beautifully starlit, and after 11 p. m. moonlit. Gave chase to
the sail, and at 1:30 a. m. came up, and spoke her. She proved to be
the same brig we had boarded two days beforethe Milo (English),
from New York for Demerara. We are still in the calms. The wind
being light, and variable from the S. to S. E., and that, too, in lati-
tude 21~. Latitude, 21~ 11 24; longitude, 570 49 30.
	Saturday, November 15.A bright, clear day, with the trade wind
at last, from about east. At daylight two sails were descried on our
port bow. One of them a rakish looking barkentine som
to windward of us, and holding her wind.	e 8 or 9 miles
Without steam it was use-
less to chase this vessel, though she was to all appearances an enemy.
The other sail soon appeared to be running down in our direction, so
we kept our sails lifting to deaden headway, and awaited her approach.
We showed United States colors, to which the chase responded with
Spanish. For the purpose of verification, bore up as she passed us
and spoke her. There was evidently a Spanish crew on her decks, and
she was from Cadiz for Havana. Hauled up on our course, S. S. W.
	Sunday, November 16.Beautiful, clear weather, with a moderate
trade from about E. by S. Woolen clothes becoming uncomfbrtable.
At 11 a. in. mustered the crew and inspected the ship. A quiet Sab-
bath day with nothing in sight. Our ship begins to look quite like a
ship of war, with her battery in fine order, her decks clean, freshly
painted outside, masts scraped, etc., and the crew well disciplined.
Thus far I have never seen a better disposed or more orderly crew.
They have come very kindly into the traces. Latitude, I8~ 00 18;
longitude, 590 27 15.
	Monday, November 17.Weather fine, with wind from B. N.E. Run-
ning bef6re the wind with studding sails set on both sides. At 2 p. m.
made the island of Dominica, half a point on the starboard bow. Lati-
tude, 150 51 58; longitude, 430~ 20.
	Tuesday, November 18.Weather fine, with an occasional light
sprinkle of rain from a trade cloud. Having made the N. end of
Martinique, at 4 a. m. we lowered the propeller and got up steam, and
just at daybreak put the ship in motion under her steam power. At
10 a. in., having passed St. Pierre, we arrived in Fort de France and
anchored. We found the bark Agrippina here laden with coal for us.
She had been dispatched from Cardiff to this rendezvous, and had
been here eight days awaiting us. Sent a lieutenant to call on the
governor and wrote him a note informing him of our arrival. He
rel)lied very politely, extending te us the hospitality of the port. After
mghtfall the Agrippina got umiderway and proceeded for another
rendezvous. At night a number of the men were discovered to be
drunk, and there being some excitement in the ship, produced by these
mcmi and the deserter Forrest, called all hands to quarters and seized
and subdued the rioters.
	Wednesday, November 19.A fine day, but the weather very warm.
In the morning watch a large steamer, supposed to be a ship of war,
was reported standing into the harbor. At 7:30 the strange steamer
hoisted the United States colors. Ordered the ship gotten ready fo

Page 806

806 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS0ONVEl~EI~AW.

battle. Sent the funds of the ship on shore for deposit, as a precaution
against their falling into the hands of the enemy in case of disaster.
The merchants on shore demanded 5 per cent on the deposit, and it
was brought back on board. As we afterwards learned that the
enemys ship was the &#38; tn Jacinto, of fourteen guns, a ship too heavy
for us to encounter, there was no necessity for sending the funds on
shore, and so the sharp practice of the merchants was all very well
for us. They afterwards sent on board and offered to take the money
at a lower rate. Having gotten on board some supplies and made
the necessary preparations, and having received a pilot at 7:30 p. In.,
we got underway and ran our of the harbor, without seeing anything
of the old wagon that was blockading us. Landed the pilot at 8:20,
near Cape Solomon. Wrote to Liverpool and sent money.
	We were anchored off the town, with the flagstaff of the fort (on the
northwest part) bearing E. N. E., and the wharf N. by E. or N. by
E. 4: E. Isle an Rameur [Ramiers Island] bearing S., and Cape
Solomon S. by W. 4: W. From the position in which we lay, all was
clear to Isle IRameur [Ramiers Island], and so to sea, the coast beyond
the island being perfectly clear.
	Thursday, November 20.Weather cloudy, with occasional rain, with
the wind from the S. E. At daylight hoisted the propeller and put the
steamer under sail, to economize our fuel. Nothing seen. Hove to at
midnight. Latitude, 130 15; longitude, 63~ 01.
	Friday, November 21.Morning cloudy, with the wind still from the
S. E. Weather clearing as the day advanced. At 9 a. m. descried a
sail on onr port bow, which proved to be our coal transport. Expe
rienced a strong westerly current during the last twenty-four hours
about 2 knots per hour. At 11:30 made the Hermanos, and a couple
of hours afterwards the island of Blanquilla. Rounded the north
end of the island and anchored on the west side, sheltered from the
trade wind. Found here a Yankee whaling schooner. I was strongly
tempted to seize her, but there being a few herdsmen resident on the
island, giving some color to the claim of occupancy and jurisdiction of
Venezuela, I believe I have rather decided to let her go. I have, how-
ever, forbidden her to depart until I have coaled ship, and to prevent
her from so doing I have directed the master and mate to be brought
on board every night as hostages. We are anchored in front of a
nice looking sand beach, in 17 fathoms water. The Agrippina followed
us in. Latitude, 120 10 41; longitude 64~ 35.
	Saturday, November 22.Hauled the bark alongside this morning and
commenced coaling ship at 8 a. in., relieving the gangs every two hours.
Received on board 70 tons, ceasing work at sundown. The wind had
been very fresh all day from the E., raising a little sea, so as to cause
the ships to chafe a little; and the weather has been so warm as to
deter me from going on shore, the barren island of Blanca [Blanquilla],
even, being very inviting after a confinement on shipboard of more
than three months.
	Sunday, November 23.Although to-day is the Sabbath, I did not
consider it any violation of Christian duty to continue coaling, as we
were liable to be surprised at any moment and to have our purpose
defeated. The crew worked very cheerfully, and by night we had
nearly finished. Permitted such of the officers as could be spared to
go on shore for exercise and recreation.
	Monday, November 24.Weather fine. Finished coaling to-day athalf
past 11 a. in., having received on board a total of 184 tons. The bunkers
arc now all full, and we have on board at least 285 tons. Consumin

Page 807

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	807

at the rate of 16 tons per day, which will give us moderate steaming,
we have on board, therefore, eighteen days fuel. In the afternoon
permitted a batch of libertymen to go on shore.
	Tuesday, November 25.Weather fine. Getting down the old and
getting up the new main yard, brought on board from the T. B. Wales.
Sent another batch of libertymen on shore. Breaking out the hold to
take an account of stock, as up to this time we have not been able
to ascertain precisely what we have on board in the way of salted
provisions. Ships draft: Aft, 15 feet 4 inches; forward, 14 feet 10
inches. An English schooner from Barbados for Cura~ao appeared off
the harbor about meridian. Sent a boat on board of her and got some
newspapers. She held onto the island until nightfall, when she made
sail to the southward and westward.
	Wednesday, November 26.Weather fine, but very warm. Let the
last batch of libertymen go on shore. Ordered a court-martial for
the trial of George Forrest, seaman. The court sentenced him to for-
felt all prize money due him and to be discharged in disgrace from the
ship. At 7:30 called all hands to muster, read the sentence of the
court and made a few remarks to the crew, and ordered the prisoner
to be landed. The bark got underway, and proceeded to her new ren-
dezvous. Upon the return of our boat, got underway under sail.
Exchanged three men for three others, volunteers, from the bark.
	Thursday, November 27.Weather fine, with a fresh trade wind. Iii
the early morning made a sail, which we soon discovered to be the bark,
our late consort. Exercised the crew at quarters. Latitude, 13~12
24; longitude, 65~ 30.
	Friday, November 28.Weather fine, thermometer from 820 to 850.
A fresh trade during the past night, moderating somewhat this morn-
ing. Getting up grapeshot and reducing the charges of the rifle gun,
the recoil being too great with the present charges. Indeed, the gun
is too light for its caliber. Returned all the prisoners to their duty
(only two). One has all sorts of characters to deal with in a ships crew,
and a vigorous arm is necessary. The boys (picked up in the streets
of Liverpool) are most incorrigible young rascals. We are now in coin-
mission, however, three months, and I am beginning to bring order
out of chaos. I regard my crew now as in fair fighting trim, though
for want of surplus shot I have not given them as much target practice
as I could desire. I am looking for a California steamer, and whilst I
am looking for her perhaps I may find a fight. Latitude, 16~ 19; longi-
tude, 660 06.
	Saturday, November 29.Fine weather. At 7:30 made a steamer,
steering about E. S. E.; probably a French steamer as she was steering
in the direction of Martinique. Hauled npon a wind for a moment, to
make preparations for lowering the propeller, but soon kept away again,
upon perceiving that the steamer did not change her course or other
wise appear to notice us, from which it was quite evident that she
was a neutral, as she was a large vessel. At 9 a. m. made the island
of Porto [Puerto] Rico. In the afternoon entered the Mona Passage.
Shortened sail to permit a bark to come up with ns. Showed her the
United States colors, to which she responded with the English. Her
name (on the stern) was the Barbados. She dipped her colors in salute,
but as the salute was not intended for the Confederate States, did not
answer it. To-day has been a great house-cleaning day with the
first lieutenant, who, perfectly regardless of Mona Passage, strange
sails, etc., is busy with his holy stones and sand, etc. At nightfall the
wind hauled to the N. and began to look squally, but about 8 p. m. go

Page 808

808 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

a sight with our glasses of the islands of Mona and Desecheoqnite a
relief. Latitude 170 45 53; longitude, 670 15 15. I fully expected
to see an enemys cruiser in this passage, through which so much com-
merce passes, but none was visible. Gave an order to the paymaster
to-day, authorizing him to pay the increased rates agreed upon with
the crew, off Terceira, viz:

	Crew.	Pay per month.	Crew.	Pay per month.


 a.
Master-at-arms	6 0=429.04	Cockswains	5 10	$26. 62
Yeoman	6 O== 29. 04	Captain of forecastle	5 10	26. 62
Ships steward	6 0~= 29. 04	Captains of tops		24. 20
Ships corporal	5 10=~ 26. 62	Captains of aftergoard....	5 0	24.20
Armorer	6 0=~ 29. 04	Captains of hold		24.20
Ships cook	5 10=~ 26. 62	Cahin steward		24. 20
Chief boatswains mate	6 0~ 29. 04	Wardroom steward	5 0	24.20
Second boatswains mate	5 10= 26. 62	Seamen	4 10	21.78
Gunners mate	6 0~ 29. 04	Ordinary seamen		19. 36
Carpenters mate	6 O=~ 29. 04	Landsmen		14.94
Sailmakers mate	5 10=~ 26. 62	Boys	2 0	9.60
Quartermasters	5 10= 26. 62	Firemen	7 0	33. 88
Quarter gunners	5 10= 26. 62	Trimmers		24. 20

	Sunday, Novenlber 30.Weather fine in the forenoon. Mustered and
inspected the crew. At 9 a. m. sent a boat on board a Spanish schooner,
twenty days from Boston, bound to the port of San Domingo. iReceived
some newspapers by her as late as the 13th instant. Soon afterwards
anether sail was discovered to leeward, beating np the coast. IRan
down for her, and when within proper distance hoisted the United
States colors. The stranger responded with the same; where upon,
according to our usual practice, we hoisted our own colors and fired a
blank cartridge. This hove her to, when we sent a boat on board of
her. She proved to be the bark Parker Cook, of and from Boston, bound
to Aux Cayes. This was a very timely capture, as our provisions were
running short, and the prize was provision-laden. Got on board from
her a quantity of pork, cheese, and crackers, etc., and at 10 p. m. illu-
minated the shores of St. Domingo with a fiambean furnished by
wicked men, who would gladly see another St. Domingo revolution in
our unhappy country. In the afternoon the weather became angry,
and the wind blew fresh, raising considerable sea, and we were in the
bight of Samana. I felt for a while a little uneasy about drifting too
near the shore. These are some of the anxieties of a commander that
his officers scarcely ever know anything- about. Our prize was burned
off Cape Raphael [Rafael]. I did not turn in until near midnight; was
called two hours afterwards, upon having run a prescribed distance;
turned in again, and had just colnfortably fallen asleep when the officer
of the deck came down in great haste to inform me that a large ship
was standing down directly for us. We were hove to, and as the moon
had gone down and the night was dark, I knew she must be close
aboard of us. I immediately ordered the main topsail filled, and hurry-
ing on a few clothes, sprang on deck. The danger was passed (at a
glance), as the intruder was abaft the beam, running to leeward. Wore
round and followed him. Latitude, 180 59 ii; longitude, 68~ 45.
	Monday, December 1.Weather fair; a stiff trade, with squall clouds.
A whirlwind passed near us. We had just time to take in the port
studding sails, which had been set in chase of the unwelcome dis-
turber of my rest last night. The chase proved to be a Spanish her-
maphrodite brig. At 10 a. m. caused a Dutch galliot to show her colors;
~nd at 1 j~. m. a bark to show Spanish colors, Land in sight on th

Page 809

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS- ~-CONFEDERATE.	809

port beam, and at noon Cape Francois [Frances Viejo] ahead. Lati.
tude, 19~ 40; longitude, 690 49/.
	Tuesday, December 2.Weather fine; wind moderate in the morning,
fresh in the afternoon; running down the land; off the grange at noom
Last night at 10 p. m. a sail was reported on the port quarter nearly
astern, running down before the wind, like ourselves, having lights
up, and looming up large. I called all hands to quarters and cleared
the ship for action, pivoting on the port side, and loading the guns.
As the stranger ranged up nearly abeam of usdistant about 800
yardswe discovered him to be a heavy steamer, under steam, and
with all studding sails set on both sides. Here was a fix. We had no
steam up ourselves, and our propeller was triced up. A few minutes,
however, decided our suspense. From the quiet movement of the
steamer on her course, without shortening sail, or otherwise, as far as
we could see, making preparation for battle, it was quite evident that
he was not an enemy. lie was a ship of warprobably a Spaniard
bound from St. Domingo to Cuba. My first intention was to range up
alongside and speak him, and for this purpose I set the foresail and
topgallant sails; but we were soon left far astern, and the stranger was
out of sight long before we could have gotten up steam and lower the
propeller in chase. Latitude, 200 04 29; longitude, 710 50. Made
the island of Tortuga about 3p. m. A sail reported on the starboard
bow, standing across our bow on the port tack. By the stupidity of
the lookouts, the first thing we knew she was oft on the starboard quar-
ter and to windward of us, she having been on the starboard tack all
the while. I turned in to-night hoping to get some rest, as I had been
up the greater part of last night; but after undressing, and before get-
ting into my cot (10 p. in.), the officer of the deck canie below in a great
hurry to say that there was a large vessel running down upon us (we
were hove to), which appeared to be a steamer. I immediately ordered
the officer of the deck to fill away, went on deck, and at a glance per-
ceived that the sail was a brig, running clear of us some distance
astern. I went below agaiii, and this time succeeded in actually get.
ting into bed, when I was again aroused by the announcement that a
vessel with very white canvas was running down upon or a little for-
ward of our weather beam. I went on deck, filled away again, and ran
on under easy sail to await the strangers approach; the night squally,
with showers of rain, and the wind fresh. At 1:30a.m. the stranger
approached, and we spoke him. He was a small schooner (white, as
almost all the West India schooners are), Spanish, etc. Turned in at
2 a. in., and at daylight down came intelligence again that there were
two sail in sight; and at 7 a. in., one of them being within signal dis-
tance, I had again to turn out, etc. This night will answer as a proto-
type of a great many spent by me in my cruises.
	Wednesday, December 3.We are cruising to-day, with the weather
very fine and clear, in the passage between St. Domingo and Cuba,
off the west end of Tortuga, and have caused to show their colors a
Spanish brig, an English hermaphrodite brig, and an Oldenburg bark;
and at noon squared away for the east end of Cuba. Where can all
the enemys cruisers be that the important passages we have lately
passed through are all left unguarded l They are off, I suppose, in
chase of the Alabama. Lowered the propeller. Latitude, 200 12;
longitude, 720 58. At 10 p. m. a bark having come quite near us in
the bright moonlight, we fired a blank cartridge to heave him to, and
wore ship. Disregarding our signal, I directed a round shot to be fired
at him above his hull. This had the desired effect, our shot passing

Page 810

810 OPERATIONS OF THE CnUI~ERSCONFEDERATE.


as we learned from hini afterwards, between his fore stay and foremast.
He proved to be French, from Port an Prince to France. When asked
why he did not heave to at the first shot, he replied that he was a
Frenchman, and at war with nobody. Made the light on Cape Maise
[Maysi] at midnight.
	Thursday, December 4.Weather settled and fine, with the moon
near its full. Standing off and on Cape Maise [Maysi], waiting for our
California friend, who should have left Aspinwall on the 1st; pass this
point to-day or to-night. Fires banked so as to give us steam at short
notice. Several sail passing during the day. At 2:30 p. m. caused to
show her colors a Spanish bark. Exercised the crew at the battery at
sunset. A beautiful bright night, with the wind somewhat too fresh
from the N. E. Lying to, off Cape Maise [Maysi]. Everyone on the
tip-toe of excitement, and a good many volunteer lookouts. As for
myself, having put the ship in the right position, I turned in at 10 p. in.,
giving orders not to call me for a sail ship, and got a good nights rest,
of which I stood very much in need.
	Friday, December 5.A very fine morning, with a highly transparent
atmosphere. The west end of Haiti visible, though distant 90 miles.
On this fine, balmy morning I enjoyed exceedingly the cheerful notes
of our canary. This is a little prisoner made on board one of the whalers,
and sometimes [in the] early morning I fancy myself amid jessamine
~ inhaling the fragrance of flowers and listening to the notes of
the wild songsters, so common in our dear Southern land. May God
speedily clear it of the wicked, fanatical hordes, that are now desolat-
ing it under pretense of liberty and free government. If the Califor-
nia steamers still take this ronte, the steamer of the 1st must have been
delayed, otherwise she should have passed us last night. Several sail
in sight, but I can not yet leave my station to overhaul them, lest my
principal object should be defeated. At meridian a schooner would
stumble right into my path without the necessity of a chase. I bronght
her to, and she proved to be United States. She was the Union, of and
from Baltimore, for Port Maria, on the north side of Jamaica. Her
cargo being English, I released her on a ransom bond for $1,500 (she
was of 90 tons and 13 years old); kept her by me until sunset, and then
permitted her to depart, having sent on board of her the prisoners from
the bark Parker Gook. Our hopes of capturing a California steamer
were considerably dampened by the intelligence given us by the master
of this schooner that the California steamers no longer ran this route,
but that the outward bound took the Mona Passage (l) and the home-
ward bound the Florida Gulf Passage. Still I [will] wait a day longer,
to make sure that I have not been deceived. Hove to for the night,
with the cape bearing about north, it being nearly calm.
	Saturday, December 6.Beautiful, clear weather, with a light breeze
from the S. W. and S., nearly approaching a calm all the morning. At
9 hoisted the propeller and made sail to the northward and eastward.
The outward-bound California ~steamer is due off the cape to-day if she
takes this route at all; I will therefore keep the cape in sight all day.
I glean the following paragraph from a New York letter published in
a file of the Baltimore Sun received from the schooner Union:
	The shipments of grain from this port during the past week have been almost
entirely in foreign bottoms, the American flag for the moment being in disfavor in
consequence of the raid of the rebel steamer Alabama.

	Lying to all night; nearly calm.
	Sunday, December 7.Clear and serene weather; nearly calm. At 11
a. m. mustered the crew and read the articles of war. At about ip. in.

Page 811

	OPERATIOI~ls OF THE ORUISERSCONFEDERATh.	811

whilst standing toward the cape, under topsails and topgallant sails,
a steamer was reported on our starboard bow. She had become plainly
visible from the deck, and was standing pretty nearly in our directiomi.
I immediately ordered the propeller lowered and the fires spread; and
in fifteen minutes we had cleared up everything and were under steam
with the crew at quarters. We ran across the track of the steamer
astern of him a short distance and hoisted the United States colors.
The steamer, which by this time had been recognized to be probably
one of the California line, hoisted the same colors. I then fired a blank
cartridge, showing colors as usual. This failing to bring her to, after
a chase of a few minutes, during which it was doubtful whether we
were gaining on him (our steam not being yet well up) I fired two shots
at himthe second one fired without orderswhich had the desired
effect; one of our shots striking his foremasts, but fortunately killing
no one. Upon the master being brought on board she proved to be the
Ariel, from New York for Aspiuwall. Sent a prize crew on board.
She had on board 140 marines for the enemys Pacific Squadron, whoni
I at once disarmed and paroled, the officers being a major and six
other officers. I also paroled Commander Sartori on his way to com-
mand the ~t. ]Jifarys. Kept the steamer in company during the night
and ran in toward the cape in wait for the other steamer which was
due the next day.
	Monday, December 8.A very fresh trade wind, with the sky partially
overcast. As the homeward-bound California steamer leaves Aspin-
wall on the 5th we are keeping a bright lookout for her. In the after.
noon disabled the prize steamer temporarily by taking off some of her
valves to prevent her from attempting to escape if we should give
chase to the other steamer. At 9 p. m. sent the engineers on board
the prize to restore her valves, and putting a prize crew ~n board again
(it had been withdrawn) I steamed for Jamaica on or about the line
which I supposed the California steamer would take. Hove to and
sent a boat on board a Dutch bark.
	Tuesday, December 9.Weather fine; prize in company. At 7 a. m.
spoke an English schooner; at 9:30 made the islamid of Navaza on the
port bow~ at 2:30 p. in. made the east end of Jamaica, and at 7:30
came up within about 9 miles of Morant Point light, and slowed down,
for the prize to join company. At 8 gave chase to an hermaphrodite
brig, and as we came up to her fired a blank cartridge and lowered
and dispatched a boat. Just at this moment it was reported to me
that the engine had become entirely useless from the giving way of one
of [the] valve castings, and that it would take full twenty-four hours
to make the repairs. In the meantime the brig had, strange to say,
not hove to, and we could not move a foot in further pnrsuit of her;
and we could not fire a shot at her, lest in the darkness we might hit
our own boat; and I was for a while quite anxious lest my boat should
be led off toofar in pursuit. However, the wind became light, and the
boat returned in about an hour and reported that she had overhauled
the brig, which was from one of the German states, just out of Kings-
ton, and that the yellow fever was prevailing at the latter port. It
was my intention to carry my prize into Kingston to test the question
whether the governor would permit me to land my prisoners there
some 700 in numberbut upon learning the above intelligence, it
would have been ii.mhurnan to put ashore, even if permitted (and I
greatly doubted on this point), so large a number of persons, many of
whom were women and children, to become victims perhaps to the pes.
tilence. Added to this,my ship was for the time being disabled, whic

Page 812

812 OPEHATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

rendered it impossible to take the prize elsewhere; aiid indeed where
could I take her with the hope of being permitted to enter and dis-
charge her live freight~ Upon the above facts I made up my mind at
once to release her on ransom bond, which I did, and lowered the pro-
peller and made sail.
	Wednesday, December 10.Running along the north side of Jamaica
to the westward. The hillsides and valleys are teeming with the
richest vegetation.~ Wind light and the weather showery. Engineers
repairing the late breakdown. At 7:30 shortened sail to topsails and
hauled on a wind on the starboard tack, and remained in this condition
all night. I am sick with cold and fever.
	Thursday, December 11.Weather clear and fine with a moderate sea
breeze. At 11 wore and stood in toward the land omi a S. S. W. course.
The engineers at work repairing the machinery. At nightfall laid the
ship to, with her head to the northward and eastward. The north side
of Jamaica appears to be very little frequented.
	Friday, December 12.Another fine, clear day. Running along the
island to the westward with a light breeze. At nightfall about oppo-
site the town of St. Anus. The engineers finished the repairs of their
engine this evening. Exercised the crew at quarters.
	Saturday, December 13.Weather flue. Passed the west end of
Jamaica about noon. Ship-cleaning day. Nothing in sight, and I
desire to see nothing (unless it be a homeward-bound California
steamer) at present, as it is important I should make the run I contemn-
plate without being traced. I should like to touch at the Caymans for
fruits and vegetables for the crew, but forbear on this account. Lati-
tude, 180 47; longitude, 78~ 27 30.
	Sunday, Dscember 14.Weather fine, trades fresh, running along
under topsails. Nothing in sight. Mustered the crew. Rain squalls
in the evening. Latitude, 18~ 113 49; longitude, 800 43.
	Monday, December 15.Fresh trade, ship running along under top-
sails. This running down, down, before the ever constant trade wind
to run up against it, by and by, under steam, is not very pleasant.
Still,~ God willing, I hope to strike a blow of some importance and
make my retreat safelyont of the gulf. Latitude, 18~ 39; longitude, 83~
06 30.
	Tuesday, December 16.Weather fine, with a moderate trade; some
passing clouds, and occasionally a sprinkle of rain. Drilling the
crew at small arms. Hove to at 8 a. in. with the main topsail to the
mast. Nothing in sight. Latitude, 190 16 30; longitude, 840 10.
The weather having become squally, and indicating a blow, at 9 p. in.
filled away.
	Wednesday, December 17.The wind blew quite fresh during the
night, from about N. E. by N.; and to-day it is blowing a moderate
gale from about N. E. This is probably a norther front the American
coast, modified by its contact with the N. E. trade wind. The clouds
look hard and wintry. Took a single reef in the main, and a double
reef in the fore-topsail. Close reefed the main topsail at nightfall.
Latitude, 190 18; longitude, 84~ 25 15. The gale has continued
all day, with a rough sea, in which the ship is rolling and tumbling
about. Weather cloudy and gloomy looking, and wind moaning and
whistling through the rigging, enough to give one the blues. These
are some of the comforts of seagoing, and we have had our share of
them in the Alabama. As night set in the gale increased and blew
quite fresh for a few hours.
	Thursday, December 18.The gale continues, with dense clouds i

Page 813

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE,	813

every direction, obscuring the heavens so that we got no meridian alti-
tude. I got a glimpse of the sun, at about nine minntes past noon.
When ones ship is in a doubtful position, how eagerly and nervously
we watch the shifting clouds near noon, and how remorselessly they
sometimes pile up their dense masses just at the critical moment, shut-
ting out from us the narrowly watched face of the sun. One is foolish
enough sometimes almost to feel a momentary resentment against
inanimate natureweak mortals that we are. The gale has drifted us
so far to leeward that the wind from its present quarter will no longer
permit us to lay through the Yucatan Passage, and so at 2 p. in. I
tacked to the southward and eastward. Latitude, 190 47 50; longi-
tude, 85~46. Weather still thick iu the afternoon, ~vith light rain at
intervals. We had a very ugly sea last night and this morning, the
ship rolling so heavily as to awaken me frequently, though I sleep in
a swinging cot; and the water swashing over the decks, and rushing
by buckets full down the companion way, which we are obliged to keep
open to avoid smothering.
	Friday, December 19.The gale continues with the tenacity of a
norther, this being the third day. Last night it blew quite fresh in
squalls all night, and there was quite a sea on. This morning the
weather is partially clear, and the wind is abating somewhat. This is
but a foretaste of the weather we may expect in the Gulf of Mexico.
Being in the Gulf of Honduras there is but a small strip of laud
between us and the former gulf. Latitude. 200 00 35; longitude, 550
31 45. Clear at noon. Breeze fresh.
	Saturday, December 20.As ugly a day as one often sees, with a great
variety of winds and weather. In the morning the wind was fresh
from the N. E., with flying clouds and a bright sun now and then
obscured. At about 9 a. m. a cloud bank in the north began to rise,
and by 11:30 we had a densely overcast sky with heavy rain squalls.
I wa~ running for Cape Catoche, and was greatly disappointed at not
getting a meridian altitude, especially after the promise of the morn-
ing. At about 11:30 made the land, two islands as described by the
man at the masthead. At 4 p. in. sounded in 28 fathoms. Weather
threatening a gale. At 0 double reefed the topsails, and sounded in
25 fathoms. I shall endeavor to feel my way around the cape, and
gradually bear up for the westward. The bank is apparently clean
and safe, but still, groping ones way in the dark in strange waters is
a somewhat nervous operation. Latitude, 21~ 20; longitude, 860 32.
	Sunday, December 21.We doubled Cape Catoche very successfully
last night, hauling around it gradually in from 25 to 20 fathoms, and
ran along in the latter depth all nightcourse W. and W. by S.;
sounding every hour. The [wind] blew half a gale and the weather
looked threatening. This morning the wind has hauled more to the
eastward, and has moderated somewhat. The sky still looks wintry,
and the sun sheds a lurid light through a semitransparent stratum
of dull, gray clouds. The water is of a light green. At 11 a. m.
mustered the crew, and at meridian passed a large steamer (hull
down) steering to the eastwardprobably a French ship of war from
Yera Cruz. Latitude, 22~ 06 22; longitude, 880 40.
	Monday, December 22.Weather clear and fine, with a fresh trade,
increasing to half a gale toward nightfall. Ran on during the past
night, in a very regular line of soundings of 20 fathoms, on a course
of W. S. W. At 9 p. in., having run within about 20 miles of the
Areas, we anchored for the night in 20 fathoms of water, Wind very
fresh, butvery little sea on, Latitude, 210 26 47; longitude, 91~ 15

Page 814

814 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Tuesday, December 23.Weather clear and fine, with the trade
inclining to be light during the forenoon. At 9 called all hands UI)
anchor, and at 10 we were underway; steering W. S. W. At meridian
observed 6 miles to the northward of the Arcas; and altered the course
to S. W. Latitude, 200 18 22; longitude, 91~ 50. At 1:30 p. m. made
the Arcas, half a point on the starboard bow, distant about 12 miles
and at sunset cam&#38; to anchor in 11 fathoms water, with the South Arca
bearing N.W. by N. In the course of the afternoon our coal ship, which
I had ordered to rendezvous here, hove in sight and joined us at the
anchorage a few minutes after we came to. Night fine and anchorage
smooth.
	Wednesday, December 24.Weather clear and fine. In the forenoon
went into the harbor and examined the entrance and anchorage. The
dangers are all visible, and it is only necessary to give the reefs a berth
that make off from the points. There is an inner reef making oft to
the westward from the northern island, but it like the others is visible
and there is no danger whatever in approaching it. The Arcas are three
low keys lying in a triangle, the northern key being the largest. We
found a hut on this latter key, a boat hauled up on the island, a net
inside the hut, a boiler or two for trying out oil, and other evidences of
the inhabitancy of fishermen or turtlers, but this not being the season
for these pursuits, everything had apparently been abandoned for some
time. Numerous birds of the gull species were the only living things
found on the island, and of these was a great variety of old birds and
their fledglings, and some of the former were still laying and setting.
They seemed to have no fear of our men, and suffered themselves to be
caught by the hand, and knocked on the head with sticks. The veg-
etation found was on the larger island, and on that it consisted of a
dense carpeting of sea kale. Not a shrub of any kind. In the trans-
parent waters on the inner reefs a great variety of the living coral was
found in all its beauty, imitating the growth of the forest on a small
scale. At 2 p. m. we got underway, and stood in and anchored under
the south side of the larger island in 9 fathoms, and moored ship with
an open hawser to the north. We entered by the southeast passage
between the south and the north island. The bark followed ns, enter-
ing by the southwest passage, between the south and the west island,
and anchored a little to the southeast of us. Our anchorage is open to
the southeast, but at this season it does not blow from that quarter,
and probably would not bring in much sea if it did. We feel very com-
fortable to-night in our snug berth.
	Thursday, December 25.Christmas day, the second Christmas since
we left our homes in the Sumter. Last year we were buffeting the
storms of the North Atlantic near the Azores. Now we are snugly
anchored in the Arcas; and how many eventful periods have passed in
the interval. Our poor people have been terribly pressed in this wicked
and ruthless war, and they have borne privations and sufferings which
nothing but an intense patriotism could have sustained. They will live
in history as a people worthy to be free, and future generations will be
astonished at the folly and fanaticism, want of principle and wicked-
ness, developed by this war among the Puritan population of the North;
and in this class nine-tenths of the native population of all the Northern
States may be placed to such an extent as the Plymouth Rock
leaven leavened the whole loaf. A people so devoid of Christian
charity, and wanting in so many of the essentials of honesty, can not
but be abandoned to their own folly by a just and benevolent God.
Our crew is keeping Christmas by a run on shore, which they all see

Page 815

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	815

to enjoy exceedingly. It is indeed very grateful to the senses to ramble
about over even so confined a space as the Arcas, after tossing about
at sea in a continual state of excitement for months. Yesterday was
the first time I touched the shore since I left Liverpool on the 13th of
August last, andl was only one week in Liverpool after a voyage of
three weeks from the Bahamas, so that I have in fact been but one
week on shore in five months. My thoughts naturally turn on this
quiet Christmas day, in this lonely island, to my dear family. I can
only hope, and trust them to the protection of a merciful Providence.
Th3 only sign of a holiday ou board to-night is the usual splicing of
the main brace, anglice, giving Jack an extra allowance of grog.
Observed latitude of hut, 2O~ 12 33 (artificial horizon).
	Friday, December 26.Weather fine, with the breeze from about E.
S.E., inclining to be calm toward nightfall. The barometer has gone
down the tenth of an inch to-day and is now (7 p. in.) 29.96. I shall
begin to look for a norther in about twenty-four hours. We com-
menced calking our leaky decks to-day, and dispatched the launch to
assist in hallasting the bark. I strolled on the islands to-day and
amused myself searching for shells along the beach. There are some
very pretty diminutive shells to be found, similar to those on the
Florida coast, but none of the larger size, except the common conch,
of which there are a few. We have made free with the turtle nets of
the fishermen found in the hut, and have set them. As yet we have
only caught two or three small turtle. I landed on the south island
to-day, where they are getting off ballast. This islet is occupied
exclusively by the black man-of-war bird, whilst the north islet seems
to be divided between the white gannet (with lower edges of its wings
black) and the black warrior, the colonies being quite distinct. The
birds are still laying and incubating.
	~S1aturday, December 27.The barometer has risen again and the
weather still continues fine. Ballasting the bark, and overhauling
and setting up our topmast and lower rigging, and calking decks.
Took a stroll on the north island toward sunset. It is dull recreation
after the novelty has worn off, with the somewhat tough walking
throngh the sand and the smell and filth of the clouds of gannet.
	&#38; tnday, December 28.Weather cloudy, with the wind from the
N. E. At 8:30 descried a schooner from aloft in the N. W., the first
sail we have seen, ~nd quite an unexpected sight at this season of the
year. After we had armed and manned the cutter to board the sail
when it should heave in sight from the deck, it was ascertained that
the lookout had been deceived, and that the supposed sail was prob-
ably a cloud on the horizon, it having suddenly disappeared. At
11 mustered the crew and inspected the ship. A quiet Sabbath.
Strolled on the island toward sunset, with the gannets for companions,
the surf for music, and the heavy sand for a promenade. The weather
cleared at nightfall, with the breeze fresh from the N.N.E. Some of the
men are getting tired of their hard service, the chief boatswains mate
having applied to return to England in the bark. Refused him per-
mission, of course. Constant cruising, vigilance against being surprised
by the enemy, salt provisions, and a deprivation of the pleasures of
port so dear to the heart of the seaman are probably what most of
them did not expect. A tight rein and plenty of work will cure the
evil.
	Monday, December 29.Weather clear and fine. At daylight hauled
the bark alongside and commenced coaling; calking the decks. Another
seaman got drunk to-day and seized his bag to go on board the bar

Page 816

816 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

to return to England. Confined him in double irons. Many of my
fellows, no doubt, thought they were shipping in a sort of privateer,
where they would have a jolly good time and plenty of license. They
have been wofully disappointed, for I have jerked them down with a
strong hand, and now have a well-disciplined ship of war. Punishment
invariably follows immediately upon heels of the offense. It has taken
me three or four months to accomplish this, but when it is considered
that my little kingdom consisted of 110 of the most reckless sailors
from the groggeries and brothels of Liverpool, that is not much.
	Tuesday, December 30.The weather still continues remarkably foe,
with a moderate breeze from the E. S. E. We finished coaling to-day,
and hauled the bark off in the afternoon. Calking the decks and
getting ready generally for our dash at the enemys coast, or rather at
the enemy on our coast, of which he is in possession. A brig hove in
sight to-day to the southward and eastward, approaching the islands
on the starboard tack until she became visible from the rail, and then
tacking; probably a Frenchman making his way from Yera Cruz to
the eastward on the bamiks. Took my usual afternoon stroll on shore.
About nightfall the sky assumed a peculiar lurid aspect, becoming
dark overhead, whilst the western horizon is lighted up with the rays
of the setting sun. Although there is not a cloud visible, one witness-
ing such appearances elsewhere would fancy himself on the eve of a
terrible storm. I attribute it to the reflection from the green waters
of the bank. We have cleared away all the old eggs from the gannets
nests, and these prolific layers are now supplying us with fresh. Of
fish we can catch none except by trolling. We have no better success
with our turtle nets.
	Wednesday, December 31.The weather has been good all day, though
we have had a heavy surf on all the reefs, indicating that there is a
gale somewhere in our vicinity, probably a norther along the Mexican
coastto thewestwardof us. The wind is at N. N. E. and moderate, and
the barometer has been rising all day, though it has not been a tenth
below thirty. It is now (4 p. in.) 30.15, so that we shall probably not
feel the gale here. Calking and painting.
	Thursday, January 1, 1863.The first day of the new year; what
will it bring forth l The Almighty, for a wise purpose, hides future
events from the eyes of mortals, and all we can do is to perform well
our parts and trust the rest to His guidance. Success, as a general
rule,attends him who is vigilant and active, and who is careful to obey
all the laws of nature. It is useful to look back on this first day of
new year and see how we have spent the past; what errors we have
committed and of what faults we have been guilty, that we may avoid
the one and reform the other. Although the wind blew pretty fresh
during the past night, we did not feel the gale in any force, and to-day
the wind has moderated and the weather become fine again. Still
calking and painting. The former seems to be an interminable job,
with our small gang of calkers. In the afternoon a brig approached
the islands, near enough to be seen, hull up, from the deck. She was
beating up the bank to the eastward, probably from Vera Cruz.
	Friday, January 2.The wind has been fresh all day, until nightfall,
from the eastward, being in some sea, and as we have been riding across
the tide the ship has had some motion. Calking and painting, tarring
down, and squaring the ratlines, etc. Commenced condensing water
to supply the bark for her return voyage to England. I must get to
sea on Tuesday, though I fear we shall not be quite done calking.
But the Banks expedition must be assembling off Galveston, and tim

Page 817

	OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	817

is of importance to us if we would strike a blow at it before it is all
landed. My men will rebel a little yet; I was obliged to trice one of
them up for a little insolent behavior.
	Saturday, January 3.A gale of wind, after all, from the S. E., which
I had hoped to escape, so rare is it to have blows from this quarter at
this season of the year. We have veered to 45 fathoms on each chain,
and are in 6 fathoms water astern (there being 9 where the anchors are),
and are tailing directly on the reef, with a few hundred feet only between
us and it, which, of course, makes me feel a little solicitude. We are
open to the S. E. winds, though these blow over the bank from laudward;
still the water is deep and the land distant aud a considerable sea comes
in.	I have ordered the fires to be lighted under another boiler to guard
against accidents. The Arcas are a dirty little anchorage for large
ships, being but an open roadstead, affording good shelter only from
the north. There is a very small basin between the two reefs running
off from the northern island, fit for very small vessels, where they
would be secure against northerly and southerly winds; but even here
they would be exposed more or less to winds from the westward.
	Sunday, January 4.Weather clear, with the wind fresh from tne
S. B., dying away in the afternoon. Having determined to put to sea
this evening, we commenced getting our coal bags on board from the
bark, omitting the usual Sunday muster. Busy with the seamen, as
usual on such occasions, sending home their allotments, etc. The
weather (3 p. in.) begins to portend a norther, and so I have directed
the engineer to hold on with his steam for the present. The wind hauled
to the north about 8 p. in., and I delayed going out for the night.
123A5

Page 818

818 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

-	List of privateers known to have been commissioned by

	[No reports of the operations of the Confederate privateers having been found, this list Is corn-
It is believed, however, that other privateers were fitted out and other prizes captured by the below
been omitted.]

	Name.	Ports from which	Class.	Master.
- fitted out.
A. C. Gunnison	Mobile, Ala	Steam tug	Peter G. Cook       
Beauregard	Charleston, S. C	Schooner	Gilbert Hay         
Calhoun	New Orleans, La	Steamer	John Wilson        
	Prizes:
	John Adams    
	Mermaid       
	Panama        
Dixie                
	Prizes:
	Glenn         
	Rowena        
	Mary Alice     
Gibraltar             
Gordon              
	Prizes:
	Protector       
Win. McGilvery ...

Gov. A. Mouton        
Isabella              
Jefferson Davis        
Prizes:
John Welsh     
Enchantress    
S. J. Waring    
Alvarado       
Santa Clara     
John Carver    
MaryE.Thompson.
Mary Goodell    
J.	0. Nixon
Lorton              
Manassas
Mariner              
Prize:
Nathaniel Chase...
Matilda              
Music               
Petrel              
                              Schooner           C. B. Arerall        
                              Schooner               Sopor        
                              Brig                   Powell       
	Charleston, S. C	Schooner	Thea. J. Moore      
Mobile, Ala        
Charleston, S. C    



New Orleans, La    
New Orleans, La    
Charleston, S. C    







New Orleans, La    
Baltimore, Md     
New Orleans, La    
Wilmington, N. C   


New Orleans, La    
New Orleans, La    
Charleston, S. C    
Pioneer	New Orleans, La   
Rattlesnake	Charleston, S. C   
Retribution           
	Prizes:
	Emily Fisher    
	Hanover       
	J. P. Ellicott    
Sallie               
	Prizes:
	B.K. Eaton     
	Betsey Ames    
	Elsinore        
	Granada       
Savannah             
	Prize:
	Joseph         
Sealine              
V.	H. Ivy          
Win. H. Webb         
York                


	PriLes:
B.	T. Martin.
	Geo. G. Baker   
Bark            
Bark          
Schooner         
Schooner         
Steamer          

Schooner         
Brig             
Steamboat        
Steam propeller    
Brig             
Brig             
Schooner         
Schooner         
Bark            
Brig             
Ship             
Brig             
Schooner         
Schooner         
Schooner         
Steam propeller    
Steam propeller    

Schooner         
Bark            
Steamer          
Schooner         


Submarine propeller..

Steamship        
W. 0. Ford         
Thos. J. Lockwood   

T.	J. Linnekin.   

 Harriman     

Saml E. Parker     

Jas. I. Bard         

Louis	M. Coxetter    
Fifield    
_____ Devereaux  
 Smith        


Edge     
_____ Havener   
____ McGilvery    

John Wilson        

W.	T. Kendall       
Jno. A. Stevenson    

B.	W. Berry        


Daniel Doane        
F.	Beicher         
Thos. McLellan      
Win. Perry         



John K. Scott       

T.	Harrison Baker    
	Galveston, Tex	Schooner	Thos. B. Power      

                               Brig         Staples       
                               Schooner          Washington Case    
		Brig                   Deveraux     
	Charleston, S. C	Schooner          Henry S. Lebby      
Charleston, S. C    


Baltimore, Md     
New Orleans, La    
New Orleans, La    
Norfolk, Va       
Brig            
Brig             
Brig             
Brig             
Schooner         

Brig            
Brig             
Steamer          
Steamer          
Schooner         
                               Brig             
                               Schooner         
Richard C. Bartlett   

A. C. Pettengill     
T. Harrison Baker    

Myers        
W.	T. Kendall       
N.	B. Baker        
Joseph Leach        
John Geoffrey      

Page 819

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.
819
the Confederate States, together with a list of their prizes.

piled only from such official documents as the Office of Naval War Records has been able to obtain.
mentioned vessels, but having no official documents from which to gather data, their names have


missioned.	Men.	IDate of	Remarks.
When corn- Tonnage.	Guns.	capture.
May 25, 1861	52 2 6-pounders   
Oct. 14, 1861 101 1             
May 15, 1861
500
1 18-pounder . . -. )
2 12-pounders ...
2 6-pounders.... )
15           
40           


150           
                                May, 1861
                  . May, 1861
                                May29,1861
July, 1861 150                   30           
Feb. 5 1864
July 15, 1861



June 10, 1861
June 4,1861
June 18, 1861







July 3,1861
June 11, 1861
Sept. 12,1861
July 14, 1861


June 8,186i
May 15, 1861
July 10, 1861


Mar. 31, 1862

Nov. 5,1862


Oct. 27, 1862




Sept. 28; 1861




May18, j~~jij~

June lf,186i
May 16, 1861
Ray 18, 1861
July 9, 1861
41(
518



125
800
187










95
95
387
135


400
273
82
2             
3            



~ 1 9-pounder   
1 6-pounder   
10            
S             









(jj8pounder....

2 carronades  
	1:::::::
~ Opunder     


4 to 6         
2 6-pounders    
2             
	4	MagazIne of ex.
		 plosives.
	1,204	6.            
150


:iiii~
3             



1-             
30~

50





75











25
36
30



100
35




180
	531	30
fiji.
454
656
68
1             
1 15-pounder    
4 12-poni~ders   
1 6-pounder    
60
100
20
July31, 1861
July, 1361
July25, 18b1



July28, 1861
July, 1861
Captured Nov. 12, 1861, by the
bark Win. G. Anderson,
Capt. Win. C. Rogers, U. S. N.
 -: Formerly the slaver Echo.
July 6,1861
July 6,1861
July 7, 1861
July21, 1861
Aug. 5,1861
Aug., 1861
July 9,1861
July 9,1861







July 25, 1861














Feb. 19, 1863
Jan. 31, 1863
Jan. 10, 1863


Oct. 30, 1861
Oct. 17, 1861

Oct. 12, 1861


June 3,1861
Formerlyrevenuecutter Aiken.
Sunk by U.8. frigate St. Law-
rence, Capt. H. Y. Purviance,
U. S. N., July 28, 1861.


Formerly Nashville. Destroyed
February 28, 1863, by U. S.
monitor ~1ontauk, Command.
or John L. Worden, U. S.N.





Formerly the Virginia.











Driven ashore and destroyed by
the U. S. S.Union, Commandex
J. R. Goldsborough, U. S. N.,
August 9,1861.
 Recaptured

Page 820

820 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.


Capture of the brig B~~tsey Ames by the C. S. privateer Sallie, October17,
1861.

Libel of H. S. Lebby, master of C. S. privateer Sallie, in behalf of himself and others, against
the brig Betsey Ames.

CONFEDERATE STATES OF AMERICA,
South Carolina district, in admiralty:
To the Hon. A. (1. MACTRATII, Judge of the District Court of the Con-
federate States for the South Carolina District:
	The libel of II. S. Lebby, master of the private armed schooner called
the Sallie, in behalf of himself and of the owners and of the rest of the
officers and crew of the said privateer and of the Confederate States,
against the brig Betsey Ames, her tackle, apparel, furniture, and cargo,
alleges and articulately propounds and declares as follows:
	1.	That open and public war did, at all times mentioned in this libel,
exist and does still exist between the Confederate States and the United
States of America.
	2.	That the said II. S. Lebby, on the [28th] day of [September], in the
year of our Lord 1861, did receive from the President of the Confed-
erate States of America a commission authorizing him, the said II. S.
Lebby, and the officers and crew of the said Sallie, to subdue, seize, and
take any armed or unarmed United States vessel, public or private.
	3.	Jhat in pursuance of said commission he, the said H. S. Lebby,
master as aforesaid, being on a cruise in the said Sallie on the [17th]
day of lOctober], in the year aforesaid, on the high seas, to wit, opposite
Bahama Banks, in longitude 700, did subdue, seize, and take as ~prize
of war the said brig called the Betsey Ames, whereof one [Richard C.
Bartlett] was master, laden with a cargo of machinery, boilers, flues,
apples, onions, cabbages, corn meal, animal carbon, and other articles,
boand from New York to Cardenas, and that the said brig, her tackle,
apparel, furniture, and cargo did belong to the Government of the
United States or to a citizeu or citizens inhabitant or inhabitants
thereof, and was and is the lawful subject of prize; and that the
said brig, having been taken and seized as aforesaid, has been brought
in charge of a prize master and prize crew into the North Edisto River,
to wit, at Charleston, one of the ports of the Confederate States, for
legal adjudication, and is now in the said port within the jurisdiction
of this honorable court.
	4.	That by reason of the matters aforesaid the said brig, called the
Betsey Ames, with her tackle, apparel, furniture, and cargo, have become
forfeited as war prize.
	5.	That all the aforesaid premises are and were true, public, and
notorious, and within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the
Confederate States and of this honorable court, of which due proof
being made the libelant prays the usual process and monition of this
honorable court in this behalf to be made, and that all persons inter-
ested in the said brig, her tackle, apparel, fuiniture, and cargo, may
be cited in general and especial to answer the premises, and all due
proceedings being had thereon, that the said brig, her tackle, apparel,
ftmrniture, and cargo, may be condemned by the definite sentence and
decree of this honorable court as forfeited and adjudged to be lawful
prize, to be distributed as by law is provided respecting captures made
by private armed vessels.
B.	C. PRESSLEY,
Ubelants Proctor

Page 821

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	821
Decision of the C. S. district court in the case of the C. S. privateer Sallie v. the brig Betsey

Ames and her cargo.

	IN THE CONFEDERATE COURT, SOUTH CAROLINA DISTRICT.
THE OFFICERS~ OWNERS, AND CREW OF THE
	privateer Sallie	}
	THE BETSEY AMES AND HER CARGO.

	On hearing read the report of the commissioner, with the evidence
takeii in preparatioii, it is ordered, ad~judged, and decreed that the
vessel and cargo be condemned and forfeited as lawful prize of war. It
is further ordered that the marshal, after public advertisement, proceed
to sell, on Tuesday, the 19th day of November, the said vessel and her
cargo at public anctiou for cash, and pay out the proceeds of such sale
according to law.
A.	G. MAGRATH.
	November 14, 1861.
	True copy:
II.	Y. GRAY,
Clerk.


Letter from A. Lilly, late C. S. privateer Beauregard, to the Secretary of
War of the Confederate States, setting forth his case as prisoner at Key
West, Eta.
KEY WEST, FLA., February 11, 1862.
	HONORABLE SIR: On the 5th of last November, myself and twenty-
six others left the city of Charleston, S. C.,on the schooner Beauregard
for the purpose of privateering and destroying the vessels of onr North-
ern enemies, under a commission of our honored President, and on the
12th of November we were captured by a Northern bark called the
Willian~ U. Anderson, commanded by one William C. Rogers, and were
brought to this place, and on the 20th of November put into the county
jail, where we have been closely confined ever since. Our situation
since our capture has been traly a deplorable one, as we have suffered
under almost every privation, such as the want of necessary food, want
of good water, want of necessary exercise, together with every indig-
nity while on the bark, such as the most scurrilous language from the
officers and commander, and fed for nine days on ship biscuit and water
only. At this place our fare is but little better, being of the coarsest
kind and as filthy as it is possible to imagine.
	My object in this instance is to call upon you and the proper authori-
ties to see if yoa can not do something to relieve us from our sufferings.
All of us are ready and willing at any moment to do all that lies in our
power to assist our country in defending its rights to the fullest extent
of our ability.
	The people of this island are at least two-thirds in favor of the South,
but they have been compelled to take the oath of allegiance to the
Northern Government, a~d are continually watched with the strictest
vigilance. There are now 3,500 Northern troops on the island, and many
more expected daily. Anarchy reigns rampant on this island.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
A.	LILLY.
	lion. J. P. BENJAMIN,
Secretary of War of the Confederate States of America

Page 822

Volume Index

Page 823

INDEX.


Abbott, William A. Report of recapture of schooner George G. Baker, Aug. Page.
	8, 1861	61
Abby Bradford, American schooner.
	Capture of, July 25, 1861. Report of Raphael Seemes	622
	 See also Sumter, C. S. S. Journal of, May 84, 1861, to April 11, 1868.
	Disposition of:, as prize. Communication from Raphael Semmes. 	624
	Recapture of, Aug. 13, 1861. Report of David D. Porter	65
See also Sumter, C. S. S. Search for. Report of David D. Porter, p. 104.
	Mentioned	65,92,97, 105, 623625, 628, 632, 698, 744
A.	B. Thompson, American ship.
   Capture of, May 21, 1861. Communication from Daniel Hood	33
   Mentioned	33
Abeille, French steamer. Mentioned	705
A. C. Gunnison, C. S. privateer. Mentioned	818
Acheran, French steamer. Mentioned	217,645,721724
Achilles, American steamer. Mentioned	336
Ada, American brig. Mentioned	296
Adams, Charles F. Mentioned	156,
160, 161, 168, 169, 190, 191, 201, 230, 231, 278, 299, 364, 395397,
399, 401, 405, 414, 429, 430, 468, 508, 509, 575, 593, 601, 686, 763
For correspondence, etc., see London, U. S. mini8ter at.
Adams, George M. Mentioned	653
Adams, Richard. Mentioned	85
Adderly, H., &#38; Co. Mentioned	427, 567, 756,757
Adela, British steamer. Mentioned	400
Adeline, British schooner. Mentioned	63
Adelso, Blockade runner. Case of. Communication from S. W. Macy	66
Adirondack, U. S. S.
Loss of Aug. 23, 1862.
Communications from
	  Da Pont, Samuel F	422,426
	   Gansevoort, Guert	428
	  Nassau, U. S. consul at	427
	  Navy Department, U. S	428
	   Spotts, James H	420
	Reports of
	  Du Pont, Samuel F	419
	  Gansevoort, Guert	420,422
	  Green, Joseph F	425
	   Parker, James	424
Mentioned. ...... 399,400,406, 408,412,417,419,420,422,424,426428,479, 487,504
	82

Page 824

	824	INDEX.
Admiralty, British. Correspondence with	Page.
   Foreign Office, British	158, 161, 163, 172, 325
   Mason, James M	157
   Moir, James	172
   Williams, Richard	163
Adrianna, American schooner. Mentioned	87
African Squadron. Movements of vessels of. Report of William Inman - ... 63,99
Agents, C. S. Seizure of, Dec. 7, 1861.
Communications from~
	Havana, U. S. consul-general at	233
	Smith, Frederick F	237
	   Zacharie J W	235
	Report of l)aniel B. Ridgely	232,233
Agnes, British schooner. Mentioned	536
Agrippina, Bark. Mentioned	559, 575, 586, 771, 773, 774, 783, 805,806
Agrippina, C. S. bark. Owners of. Correspondence with	McQueen~ - 771
Alabama,* C. S. S.
   Captures by, list of	780
   Escape of, from Liverpool, July 30, 1862.
      Communications from
         Bulloch, James D	771775, 777
         Liverpool, U. S. consul at	415
         London, U. 8. minister at	415
      Report of T.Augustus Craven	414
   Escape of, from Martinique, Nov. 19, 1862.
Communications from
	Martinique, Governor of	550
	   Martinique, U. 8. consul at	551
	Abstract log of U. S. S. San Jacinto	554
Reports of
	Baker, John	551
	Chandler, R	552,553
	Coop, HenryJ	552
	Keene, Henry T	553
	Ronckendorff, William	549
	Semmes, Raphael	778
See also Alabama, C. S. S. Journal of, Aug. 20, 1862, to Jan. 4, 1863.
	Fitting out of. Communication from Bulloch, James D	770-777
	Journal of, Aug. 20, 1862, to Jaa. 4, 1863	783817
	Mentioned	415, 417, 4l9, 421,
429, 431, 433, 463, 470, 472, 476, 480, 482484, 486, 490, 493, 502, 506-510,517
520, 522, 523, 525530, 533, 538, 542, 543, 545, 546, 549554, 559, 572575, 577
583,586595, 597, 602605 607, 609, 686, 688. 769, 773, 775784, 809, 810,812
Operations and movements of.
Communications from
	   Bulloch, James D			775777
	   Delano, J. C			493
	   Lisbon, U. S. miuister at			490
	   Navy Department, U. S		..	491,529,583
	   Redden, Henry			527
	   Smith, John T			528
	Reports of
	   Pickering, Charles W			490,540

* Also known as the 290 and the Enrica

Page 825

	iNDEX.	825
Alabama, C. S. 8.Continued.	Page.
Operations and movements ofContinued.
Reports ofContinued.
	Ronekendorif, William		574
	Semmes, Raphael		778
	Wilkes, Charles		483
Search for.
Communications from
	Barbados, U. Sconsul at	590
	Brava, Cape Verde Islands, U. 8. consul at	607
	Craven, T. Augustus	575
	Gibraltar, U. S. consul at		537
	Glisson, Oliver S		606
	Goldsborough, Louis M	- ..	431
	Jones, J. D		508
	Keene, Henry T		590
	Lee, Samuel P		517,520
	Lisbon, U. S. minister at		537
	Marshall C H		545
	Montgomery, John B		601
	Navy Department, U. S	525
	Nicholson, James W. A	o30
	Paulding, Hiram	529,532
	Pickering, Charles W	sti
	Riuggold, Cadwalader	~97
	   Wilkes, Charles	483, 593
	Instructions of Navy Department, U. S	509,510,587
Orders of Navy Department, U. S. - 416, 417, 508,517,518, 522, 523, 533, 575, 601
Reports of
	Baldwin, Charles H	538,563, 605
	Bryson, Andrew	537, 546, 562
	Craven, T. Augustus	428,519,609
	Glisson, Oliver S	592
	McKinstry, James P	545
	Nickels, J. Frederick	575
	Pickering, Charles W	540
	Rouckendorif, William	559,589, 602
	Wilkes, Charics	502, 505, 542, 557, 558, 571, 586
   Supplies for. Communications from owners of British bark Agrippina~	771
Albemarle, Steamer. Mentioned	50
Albert Adams, American brigantine. Mentioned	619, 620, 622, 630, 695, 744
Albury, John. Mentioned	567, 568
Alert, American bark. Mentioned	780, 789
Alert, British schooner. Mentioned	516
Alice, American schooner. Mentioned	559
Alice, British steamer. Mentioned	492, 493
Allen, Charles M. Mentioned	257,261,262,484,485,497,499,504,512,595
For correspondence, etc., see Bermuda, U. S. consul at.
Allen, George D. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	536
Alma, British schooner. Mentioned	259
Almy, John J. Report of search for U. S. ship Vermont, March 1April 12,
          1862	344
Altaniaha, Arcerican brig. Mentioned	780,789
Alvarado, American bark. Mentioned	818
Amazon, British steamer. Mentioned	64

Page 826

	826	INDEX.
	rage.
America, Steamer. Mentioned	302
American Eagle, Bark. Mentioned	305,306
Anandale, H. A. Report of escape of C. S. S. Sumter from Martinique, Nov.
	23,1861	216
Anderson, Mr. Mentioned	764
Andrew, John A. For correspondence, etc., see Massachu8ett8, Governor of.
Andrews, W. S. G. Mentioned	51
Andrews, William. Me~tioned	508,509,521, 688690
Andros, R. S., et al. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	22
Angela Brewer, Bark. Mentioned	306
Anglia, British steamer. Mentioned	400,501
Ann E. Berry, Schooner. Mentioned	402
Antonica, British steamer. Mentioned	556,562,582
Appcnyi, Count. Mentioned	170
Arcade, American schooner. Mentioned	646, 726, 744
Archibald, Edward M. Mentioned	192
Areal, Steamer. Mentioned	767
Arerall, C. B. Mentioned	818
Ariadne, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	308, 368
Ariel, American steamer.
   Capture of, Dec. 7, 1862.
     Communication from Theodorus Bailey	s9s
     Reports of
        Sartori, Lewis C	577,579
        Semmes, Raphael	778
     Statement of A. G. Jones	782
     Disposition of, as prize	782
	Mentioned	577579,595, 603,608, 609,779,780,782,811
Arizona, British steamer. Mentioned		492
Arkansas, C. S. S. Mentioned		441
Armstrong, James F.
Reports of escape of C. S. S. Nashville into harbor of Beaufort, N. C., Feb.
	28, 1862	332,333
   Mentioned	63,333
Armstrong, Richard F.
  Correspondence with Raphael Semmes	684
  Mentioned	613,614,683-686,771
Aroostook, U. S. S. Mentioned	337, 342, 350351
Aspinwall, New Granada. Affairs at. Report of Thomas M. Brasher	89
Aspinwall, U. S. consul at. Mentioned	66
Aspinwall, William H.
   Correspondence with Allan McLane	16
   Mentioned	8
Asterion, American ship. Mentioned	637
Astr6e, French steamer. Mentioned	368
Atherton, William, Sir. Mentioned	168
Atlantic, Brigantine. Mentioned	556
Atlantic, British steamer	742
Atlantic, Steamer. Mentioned	302,492
Auchrim, John L. Mentioned	748.752
Augusta, U. S. S. Mentioned	115, 526,	529
Augusta Jessie, British bark. Mentioned		34
Austin, Steamer. Mentioned		492
Austria, Emperor of. Mentioned	 	18

Page 827

	INDEX.	827
	Pare.
Averett, Samuel W. Mentioned	 768
Azores Islands. Affairs in vicinity of.
  Communication from U. S. minister at Lisbon	580
  Report of Daniel P. Upton	481
B. C. Scribner, American schooner. Mentioned	118
B. K. Eaton, American brig. Mentioned	389,818
B. T. Martin, American brig. Mentioned	59,60,818
Bacchante, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	391
Bacon, Francis. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	240,241
Backus, Simeon. Correspondence with State Department U S	67
Bahama, British steamer. Mentioned	400,
416,527,537,575,580, 686, 756759, 763, 764, 775, 776, 783786,788
Bahama Islands, Governor of.
	Correspondence with Gnert Gansevoort	411
	Mentioned	404,406,408,410,428,486,487,491,502,555,556,571
Bailey, Theodorus.
Correspondence with
	  Navy Department, U. S	598
	  Wilkes, Charles	595
	Mentioned	301
Bainbridge, U. S. brig. Mentioned	72,74,75,76,78
Baker, John.
   Mentioned	549,554
  Report of escape of C. S. S. Alabama from Martiniqne, Nov. 19, 1862	551
Baker, N. B. Mentioned	818
Baker, T. Harrison. Mentioned	28,29,30,818
Baker, William L. Mentioned	383,384
Baldwin, Augustus S.
  Mentioned	347349
Reports of cruise and conditions of U. S. ship Vermont, March 1April
	12, 1862	335,336, 338, 342, 349
For correspondence, see Birnie, Edward A.
Baidwin, Charles H.
  Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	533, 575
  Mentioned	544
   Reports of search for C. S. S. Alabama	538, 563,605
Bail, Mr. Mentioned	274
Bail, William H. Mentioned	43
Ballin, Pilot. Mentioned	97
Baltic, American steamer. Mentioned	236,337, 338, 342344, 346,347
Bamberg, Ship. Mentioned	98
Banks, Nathaniel P. Mentioned	587
Barbados, British bark. Mentioned	807
Barbados, U. S. consul at.
   Correspondence with William Ronckendorff	590
   Mentioned	91, 106,303
Barcelona,* C. S. S. Mentioned	482,490,519
Bard, James I. Mentioned	818
Baring Brothers &#38; Co. Mentioned	202,362, 372,387,656,737
Barney, Hiram. Correspondence with
   Navy Department, U. S	548
   Treasury Department, U. S	38
   Mentioned	539

* Same as C. S. S. Alabama

Page 828

	828	naEx.
	Pare.
Barney, Joseph N. Mentioned	769
Barnstein, Pilot. Mentioned	527
Baron de Castine, American brig.
  Capture of, Oct. 29, 1862. See Alabama, C. S. S. Journal of, Aug. 20, 1862,
           to Jan. 4, 1863.
      Disposition of,- as prize	781
   Mentioned	526, 780,781,802
Barracouta, H. B. M. 8. Mentioned	368,555,571,651
Barrett, Doctor. Mentioned	765,766,767, 768
Barstow, I. II. Mentioned	345
Bartlett, John K. Mentioned	351
Bartlett, Richard C. Mentioned	228,818,820
Bayley, Charles 3. Mentioned	404, 408, 410,428,491,572
For correspondence, etc., see Bahamas I8lands, Governor of.
Beaufort, Duke of. Mentioned	738
Beaufort, M. P. Mentioned	614,684
Beaumont, John C. Mentioned	342, 350
Beauregard, C. S. privateer.
Capture of, Nov. 12, 1861.
	Abstract log of U. S. bark W. G. Anderson	207
	Reports of William C. Rogers	206,211
	Mentioned	121, 206,207, 211,818,821
Bedingfield, Norman B. Mentioned	24
Beloher, F. Mentioned	818
Bell, Charles H.
Correspondence with
	Bissell, Simon B	291,297
	Hollins, George N	20
	MeDongal, David	304,394
	Middleton, Edward	304,383
	Navy Department, U. S	274, 303, 391, 392,594
	Palmer, James S	21
	Sartori, Lewis C	580
	Stanly, Fabius	384,471,584
	Mentioned	379, 577,578
	Relinquishes command of U. S. forces in Mediterranean Sea	37
Reports of
Mediterranean Sea. Operations and movements of U. S. naval forces
	in	20,23,26,35
	Messina, Italy. Disturbances at	4,5,6
	Mexico. Affairs in	383
	Pacific coast. English and French naval forces on	391
Pacific Squadron. Operations and movements of vessels of	279,
	291,298,303,357
      Panama. Affairs at	401
      Privateers, Confederate. Fitting out of	292
Bella Engracia, Spanish brig. Mentioned	63
Belligerents, rights of. See Neut~-ality regulations.
Bellups, Quartermaster. Mentioned	767
Ben, American ship. Mentioned	285
Ben De Ford, Steamer. Mentioned	419
Ben Dunning, American brigantine. Mentioned	619, 620, 622, 630,695,744
Benjamin Burgess, American bark. Mentioned	49
Benjamin, Judali P. For correspondence, etc., see State Department, C. S

Page 829

	INDEX.	829
	Page.
Benjamin Tucker, American ship. Mentioned	780,790
Bennett, Captain. Mentioned	66
Bennett, John W. Mentioned	748,752
Berg, H. H. Mentioned	385
Bermuda, British steamer. Mentioned	230,277,317, 364
flermuda, Islands of. Afairs at.
   Communications from
      Stone, David M	98
      U. S. consul at Bermuda	515
Reports of
	De Camp, John	257
	Frailey, James M	257
	LeRoy, William E	261
	Wilkes, Charles	483, 493, 502
Bermuda, Governor of.
Correspondence with
	Glisson, Oliver S	596, 597
	Stevens, Thomas H	502
	Wilkes, Charles	493, 494, 49~, 496
Mentioned	121, 161,247,261,484,488,494, 502, 504, 512,516,528,569,595
Bermuda, U. S. consul at.
	Correspondence with Charles Wilkes	494,515
	Mentioned	120,
		202,219,222, 243, 247, 257, 261,262, 484,485, 497499, 502-504, 563, ~95
Bernstorff, Count.
	Correspondence with Baron Gerolt	174
   Mentioned	176
Berry, B. W. Mentioned	51,818
Berthoier, French steamer. Mentioned	385
Berthollet, French steamer. Mentioned	368
Betsey Ames, American brig.
   Capture of, Oct. 17, 1861.
      Communication from James H. Young	228
      Libel of master of C. S. privateer Sallie	820
      Order of C. S. district court	821
   Mentioned	818
Betsey Williams, American bark. Mentioned	557
Beveridge, 3. Mentioned	747
flierwirtli, Leopold D. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	229
Bird, Captain. Mentioned	227
Birnie, Edward A.
   Correspondence with Hiram Paulding	336
	Mentioned	337, 339, 3~0
Bissell, Simon B.
Correspondence with
	Bell, Charles H	291,297
	Montgomery, John B	54,57
	Mentioned	25,46,56,57,88,279,291,292
   Report of fitting out of Confederate privateers	379
Black, Captain. Mentioned	570
Blackstone, American steamer. Mentioned	341,344,587
Blair, Montgomery. For correspondence, etc., see Post-Office Department, U. S.
Blake, Homer C. Mentioned	346,347
Blakeney, William. Mentioned	533,53

Page 830

	830	INDEX.
	Page.
Blanche, British steamer. Mentioned	505
Blandy, Charles R. Mentioned	801,802
Blockade runners.
   Operations and movements of.
      Communications from
        Halifax, U. S. Consul at	202
        Havana, U. S. consul at	258,492
        London, U; S. consul at	226,227
        Marchand, John B	202
        Nassau, U. S. consul at	501,562, 570,588
        Navy Department, U. S	211,388
        Welch, li. W	203
     Reports of
        Du Pont, Samuel F	258
        Frailey, James M	384
        Temple, William G	245,248,255,260,266,268,284
  Search for.
     Communications from
        Da Pont, Samuel F	256
        Montgomery, John B	239
        Nassau, U. S. consul at	555
        Wilkes, Charles	477,499,522
     Instructions of Navy Department, U. S	566
     Orders of Navy Department, U. S	207,478
      Reports of
        Frailey, James M	285
        Marchand, John B	224
        Moore, Henry T	353
        Ridgely, Daniel B	218,220
        Rodgers, George W	alS, 539
        Rogers, William C	305
        Stevens, Thomas H	511
        Temple, William G	273,280
Bloodgood, Delevan. Mei~tioned	492,508
Blunt, B. &#38; George W. Correspondence with
   Conley, John	67
  Navy Department, U.S	67
Blunt, George W. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	59
Blunt, William B. Mentioned	263
Board of Trade, Boston. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. 5.. 542,544
Bonita, British steamer. Mentioned .. 	556,562
Borchert, George A. Mentioned	24
Bosch, Milans de. Mentioned	354,355
Boston Harbor. Protection of. Communications from
   Board of Trade,. Boston	542
   Marine Society, Boston	547
Bowen, Francis. Mentioned	11,13
Bradford, Otey. Mentioned	760, 763, 764, 769,770
Bragg, Ira W. Mentioned	553
Brand, Frederick B. Mentioned	692
Brandenburg, Count. Mentioned	174,176
Brannan, John M. Mentioned	110, 356
Brasher, Thomas 1W.
   Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	22,7

Page 831

	INDEX.	831
Brasher, Thomas M.Continued.	Page.
	Mentioned	74,75,78
Reports of
	Aspinwall. Affairs at	89
	Commerce. Protection of	84
	Sumter, C. S. S. Search for	66
Brazil Squadron, U. S. Movements of vessels of. Reports of Joshua R.
	Sands	27,30,70
Breese, K. Randolph. Mentioned	134,139
Breese, Samuel L.
Correspondence with
	Dii Pout, Samuel F	114
	Navy Department, U. 5	15 17, 19, 39,40,41,43,85, 113, 116
	Palmer, James S	41
	Smith, Charles H	51
	Woodhull, Maxwell	116
	Mentioned	15,85, 116, 120
	Report of fitting out of Confederate privateers	17
Bright, John. Mentioned	156
Brilliant, American ship. Mentioned	510,517519,780, 792,793,801
Brilliant, British schooner. Mentioned	581
British Queen, British steamer. Mentioned	560
Brooklyn, U. S. S. Mentioned	34, 615618, 622, 629, 641, 691694
Brooks, William P. Mentioned		614
Brower, Alfred S. Correspondence with George H. Preble		452
Brown, Lieutenant. Mentioned		764
Brown, Master. Mentioned		725
Brown, B. H. Mentioned		768
Brown, Francis S.
   Mentioned		442
   Report of escape of C. S. S. Florida into Mobile Bay, Sept. 4, 1862		443
Brown, Joseph E. Correspondence with State Department C 5		688
Brown, Joseph T. Mentioned		653
Brown, S. P. Correspondence with
   Carlisle, Hiram		50
   Navy Department, U. S                                    
Bruce, H. W. Correspondence with T. Augustus Craven		287
Brunnow, Baron. Mentioned                              176,		188,189
Bryan, George D. Mentioned		760,764,770
Bryson, Andrew.
Correspondence with
	  Gibraltar, U. S. consul at	537
	  Navy Department, U. S	479
	  Pickering, Charles W	541
	Mentioned	524,540
	Reports of
	  Alabama, C. S. S. Search for	537,546,562
	  Sumter, C. S. S. Guarding of	523,601
      Sumter, C. S. S. Sale of	588, 593
Buchanan, Franklin.
   Correspondence with Navy Department, C. S	762
   Mentioned	761, 767, 768, 769
Bueno, Antonio. Mentioned	736
Buli Dog, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	249,256,267,281, 500, 506,525,76

Page 832

	832	INDEX.
BuJ1c~ch, James D	Page.
Correspondence with
	   Butcher, Mathew J	- 773
	   Low, John	756,757
	   Maffitt, John N	755,760
	   Mason, James M	690, 770, 775,777
	   Navy Department, C. S	689,753, 775
	   Yonge, C. R	773
	Mentioned	414,
419, 421, 431, 527, 684686, 689691, 745, 746,752,758,763,771,772, 783, 786
   Report of preparation of C. 8. 8. Florida for sea	753
Bunce, J. S. Mentioned	557
Bunch, Robert. Mentioned	168
Burcham, George E. Mentioned	348
Burden, H. 3. Mentioned	801,802
Burge, William 3. Mentioned	314, 315
Burgess, George. Correspondence with
   Lemprien, Charles	234
   Rogers, Thomas 8	233
Burnside. Ambrose E. Mentioned	333, 580
Burnside. Bruce L. Mentioned	534,535
Butcher, Mathew J.
   Correspondence with James D. Bulloch	773
   Mentioned	772, 773, 783, 784, 786
Bynkershoek, Cornelius Van. Mentioned	198
Cacho, John. Mentioned	766
Cadiz, Captain of port of. Correspondence with Raphael Semmes	638
Cadiz, Governor of.
	Correspondence with Raphael Semmes	638, 640,643, 644, 652,653,657,658
	Mentioned	367, 375, 377, 646,655, 656, 680, 734, 735, 737
Cadiz, U. S. consul at.
Correspondence with
	   Mann, Matthias C	638
	   Semmes, Raphael	377
	Mentioned	23,290,
312, 313, 318, 361, 367, 374, 375, 377, 378,653, 655, 658, 659, 677, 679, 735, 737
Cadmus, British frigate. Mentioned	122,369,700
Cr.ldwell, Henry. Mentioned	308
Caleb Stetson, American schooner. Mentioned	246
Calhoun, C. S. privateer. Mentioned	818
California steamers. Protection of.
   Communications from
      Bell, Charles H	471
      Carpender,. Edward W	74,75,76
      King,D.R.,&#38; Co	23
      Latham, Milton S	44
      McLane, Allan	14, 16, 17,72
      Montgomery, John B	54,55,76,77
      Navy Department, U. 8	14, 26,73, 77, 78, 393, 609
      Snmner,EdwinV	74
      Tinklepaugh, E. L	75
      Vanderbilt, Cornelius	8,604,605,609
  Orders of Navy Department, U. 8	3, 22, 604,608
  Petitions of
     Merchants of New York	10
     Merchants and bankers of New York	

Page 833

	INDEX.	833
California steamers. Protection ofContinued		Page.
   Reports of
      Carpender, Edward W		74
      Ritchie, Robert		25,35
      Thomas, Charles		3 -
Calvert, George H. Mentioned		367
Cambridge, Steamer., Mentioned	38,	39,45
Cameleon, H. B. M. S. Mentioned		391
Cameron, Simon. For correspondence, etc., see War Department, U. S.
Campbell, Captain. Mentioned		59
Campbell, John. (Seaman.) Mentioned		370
Campbell, John. Mentioned		559
For correspondence, etc., see Martinique, U. S. COn8ul at.
Canandaigua, U. S. S. Mentioned	420,422,424,425,426
Cand6, de Maussion de. Mentioned		208,
210,213,222,549,553, 554, 644, 645, 647651, 719723,805
For correspondence, etc., see Martinique, Governor of.
Cann, Thomas. Correspondence with John T. Fisher, et al		528
Cape Verde Islands, U. S. consul at.
Correspondence with
      Glisson, Oliver S	607
      Ringgold, Cadwalader	608
   Mentioned	597,606,607
Carlisle, Hiram.
   Correspondence with S. P. Brown	50
  Mentioned	50
Caroline, Case of the ship. Mentioned	197, 199,200
Carpender, Edward W.
   Correspondence with
      Sumner, Edwin V	74
      Tinklepaugh, E. L	75,76
  Mentioned	84,90
   Report of protection of California steamers	74
Cartter, D. K. Mentioned	578
Carver, Benjamin. Mentioned	659
Carver, Charles G. Mentioned	659
Carver, Isaac. Mentioned	659
Carver, John. Mentioned	659
Cary, Clarence. Mentioned	752
Casanuova, Mr. Mentioned	152
Case, Washington. Mentioned	818
Castro, Don Jos6. Mentioned	697,698
Cavendy, Edward.
   Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	515
   Reports of
      Commerce. Protection of	541
M.	Sandford, American steamer. Assistance rendered U. S. troops on. 587
Cayuga, U. S. S. Mentioned	338, 393,432,436,437,439
Ceballos, M. Mentioned	781
Cedar, Bremen bark. Mentioned	104
Cecile, Steamer. Mentioned	755
Central America, American ship. Mentioned	726
Cerubs, Master. Mentioned	500
Chads, Henry.
  Correspondence with T. Augustus Craven	356
  Mentioned	357
     123A5

Page 834

	834	INDEX.
	 Page.
Challenger, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	308,368
Chamberlain, Phelps &#38; Co. Mentioned	801
Chandler, Mr. Mentioned	302
Chandler, Ralph.
   Corre~pondence with William Ronckendorff	583
	Mentioned	549, 554, 559, 583, 590
Reports of escape of C. S. S. Alabama from Martinique, Nov. 19, 1862 --- 552, 553
Chapman, A. 3. Mentioned	339, 350
Chapman, Robert T.
	Correspondence with Raphael Semmes	- - 666, 669
Mentioned	589, 613,614, 621, 664, 688, 689k 690, 691,696,697, 719,771,778
Charybdis, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	391
Chase, Salmon P. Mentioned	38,66,548
          For correspondence, etc., see Treasury Department, U. S.
Chiabura, General. Mentioned	4
Chippewa, U. S. S. Mentioned	479,524,537,540,580
Christophe, French bark. Mentioned	793
Cialdini, General. Mentioned	4,5, 6, 7
Cienfuegos, Governor of.
   Correspondence with Raphael Semmes	619
  Mentioned	93, 104,519, 620,625, 631,696
Cimarron, U. S. S.
  Condition of. Report of Maxwell Woodhull	473
	Mentioned	469, 470,472,474,486, sos; 513, 542, 586
Circassian, English steamer. Mentioned		385
Clarissa and Falmouth, Slavers. Case of.
   Communications from
      Madrid, U. S. minister at		375, 376, 377
      Mann, Matthias C	... 	377
  Reports of Matthias C. Mann - . -		366, 374
   Mentioned		366, 367, 374, 376, 377
Clary, Albert G.
   Correspondence with Charles Wilkes		545
   Mentioned		558
   Reports of
      Commerce. Protection of		560
     Nonsuch, British schooner. Capture of, Dec. 1,	1862	567, 568
Cleary, Judge. Mentioned		68
Clendenin, 3. W. Mentioned		774
Clio, H. B. M. S. Mentioned		391
Clipper, Schooner. Mentioned		561
Clontman, Benjamin S. Mentioned		276
Coal, Supplies of.
   Communications from
      Nassau, U. S. consul at		487, 488
      Navy Department, U. S		479,486
      Wilkes, Charles		477
   Order of Navy Department, U. S		S60
   Report of James P. McKinstry		486
Cobden. Richard. Mentioned		1S6
Codrington, William 3. Mentioned		738
For correspondence, etc., see Gibraltar, Governor of.
Coffee,* C. S. privateer. Mentioned	60,67

* Same as Winslow, C. S. privateer

Page 835

	INDEX.	835
Coggeshall, T. &#38; 3. Correspondence with Navy Department, ~. ~	Pag~
	37
Coleman, William T., &#38; Co., et al. Correspondence with Navy Department,
	U.S	10
Coihoun, John. Mentioned	63
Collingbridge, Augustus. Mentioned	23
Collins, James. Mentioned	534
Collins, Napoleon.
   Correspondence with
      Navy Department, U. S	483,486,534,598
	  Wilkes, Charles	499
	Mentioned	511,540,545, 558
	Reports of
	  Elias Reed, Schooner. Seizure of, Nov. 5, 1862	533 535
	  Mont Blanc, British schooner. Capture of, Dec. 25, 1862	598600
Colorado, U. S. S. Mentioned	301
Columbia, American steamer. Mentioned	85,400,413,419,420,422
Commerce.
   Depredations upon.
      Communications from
         Delano, J. C	493
	  Fayal, Azores, U. S. consul at	480
	   Smith, John T	526
Reports of
	Mann, Matthias C	482
	Upton, Daniel P	480
Protection of
Communications from
	   Bell, Charles H	297,	584
	   Forbes, J. M., &#38; Co		102
	   Forbes, R. B		21
	   Lisbon, U. S. consul at		530
	   Massachusetts, Governor of		44
	   Montgomery, J. B		220
	   Navy Department, U. S		9,392
	   Pickering, Charles W		507
	   Richards, A. C		576
	   Ringgold, Cadwalader		608
	   Spofford, Tileston &#38; Co		85
	   Thomas, William B		45
	   Underwriters, New York Board of	221,229
	   Weed, W.F.,&#38; Co		10
	Instructions of Navy Department, U. S		470
	Orders of Navy Department, U.S		15,19,
84,85, 124, 127, 212, 221, 230,272,288, 301, 332, 399, 475, 515, 524, 525, 566
Petitions of
	Chamber of Commerce, New York	576,577
	Insurance Companies, Boston, Mass	22
	Insurance Companies, New York	9
	Merchants and shipowners of Boston, Mass	240
Reports of
	Brasher, Thomas M	84
	Cavendy, Edward	541
	Clary, Albert G	560
	Creesy, Josiah ~	27

Page 836

	836	II~DEX.
CommerceContinued.	Page.
Protection of-.Continued.
Reports ofContinued.
	DeCamp, John	280, 303
Glynn, James	2o0
LeRoy, William E	247
	Mann, Matthias C	388,519
Montgomery, John B	71
Rogers, William C	365
Schenck, James F.	218
Thatcher, Henry K	370
Wilkes, Charles                                     
Resolution of New York Chamber of Commerce	577
Commissioners, Confederate. Capture of, Nov. 8,1861.
Communications from
	Admiralty, British	157, 158, 163, 172
	Bernstorff, Count	174
	Foreign Office, British	159161, 165, 168, 176, 188192, 196
	Havana, Cuba, British consul-general at	171
	Hewett W	195
	Hudson, William L	146
	Hulsemann, M. de	170
	Mason, James M	148, 150, 151, 157
	Slidell, John, et at	446
	State Department, U. S	172, 177, 195
	Thouvenel, M	16
	Washington, British minister at	162,
		167, 169171, 174, 176, 177, 187, 188, 192, 193196
	Williams, Richard	158, 163
	Congratulatory letter from Navy Department, U. S	148
	Correspondence laid before Parliament in 1862	158
	Abstract log of U. S. S. San Jacinto	132
	Orders of Navy Department, U. S	145,147
Protest of
     Master of British steamer Trent		172
     Yancey, William L., et at		152
  Reports of
     Dahigrem Charles B		138
     Fairfax, D. M		133
     Goldsborough, Louis M		142
     Grace,H.P		138
      Green, James A		134
      Hall, George W		137
     Houston, J. B		136
      Hudson, William L		148
      Mason, James M., et at		139
      Simpson, Robert G		138
      Slidell, John, et at		139
      Wilkes, Charles                              129, 142, 143, 145,		147
      Yancey, W. L., et at		154
Comstock, James H. Mentioned	-	768
Comstock, Joseph J.
   Correspondence with Cadwalader Ringgold		342
	Mentioned	338, 343
	Reports of search for U. S. ship Vermont, March 1April 12, 1862	343, 345

Page 837

	INDEX.	837
	Page.
Congress, U. S. frigate. Mentioned	30, 70, 743
Conley, John. Correspondence with Blunt, E. &#38; G. W	67
Connecticut, U. 8. 8. Mentioned	116, 437, 438, 453, 516, 606, 608,609
Conqueror, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	281-284
Constellation, U. S. sioop of war. Mentioned	-- 64, 99, 293, 332, 382, 383,509
Constitution, U. S. frigate. Mentioned	18
Contencin, Louis. Mentioned		801
Cook, L. G. Mentioned. - - 		598
Cook, Peter G. Mentioned		818
Cooke, E. Mentioned		587
Coop, Henry 3.
   Mentioned	549, 554,559
   Report of escape of C. 5. 8. Alabama from Martinique, Nov. 19, 1862	552
Cooper, George. H.
   Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	604
   Mentioned		426, 608
Coote, Captain. Mentioned		287
Cope, Francis R. Mentioned		780
Cope, Thomas P. Mentioned	--- .	780
Copernicus, Bremen bark. Mentioned		29
Corning, fl. L. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S		123
Cornubia and Thistle, British steamers.. Boarding of, Nov., 1862.
   Order of Navy Department, U. S	565
   Reports of T. Augustus Craven	564,565
   Times, London, letter in	566
Cornwell, George F. Mentioned	688,689
Cortina, Valentino. Mentioned	13
Corwin, U. S. Coast Survey steamer. Mentioned	84
Corwin, Thomas. Mentioned	308
Costarelli, Mariano. Mentioned	801.
Coughlin, Michael. Mentioned.	96
Courier, U. S. storeship. Mentioned		544
Courser, American schooner. Mentioned		780, 790
Coxetter, Louis M. Mentioned		42,406, 412,515,818
Craig &#38; Nicoll. Mentioned		798,799
Craven, T. Augustus.
Correspondence with
	Bruce, H. W	287
	Chads, Henry	356
	Creesy, Josiah P	312, 319,322
	Gibraltar, Governor of	324, 327, 328, 329, 330, 356
	Gibraltar, U. S. consul at	331,352,373,382
	Lisbon, U. S. minister at	530,573,580
	Liverpool, U. S. consul at	415
	London, U. S. minister at	276,295,395, 415
	Madrid, U. 8. minister at	317, 320, 359, 370
	Navy Department, U. S	230, 297, 389, 395, 405, 430,468,565,566
	Nickels, J. Frederick	575
	Patey, Charles G. E	279, 294, 295, 300
	Pickering, Charles W	381, 396,507
	Shelby, John	418
	Stewart, Sir Houston	429,430
	Tangier, U. S. consul at	310
	Upton, Daniel P	4~

Page 838

INDEX.
838
Craven, T. AugustusContinued.	Page.
Correspondence withContinued.
	Warden, Frederick	327
	Wilicox, J. A. - 	278
	Mentioned	111, 203,249, 305,312
319, 358, 360, 361, 382, 385, 396, 397,481, 489,490,521, 541, 562, 575, 746,777
Reports of
	Alabama, C. S. S. Escape of, from Liverpool, July 30, 1862	414
	Alabama, C. S. S. Search for	. 428, 519, 609
	Cornubia and Thistle. Boarding of, Nov., 1862	564, 565
	Myers and Tunstall, Messrs. Seizure of, Feb. 19, 1862 .	310, 392
	Nashville, C. S. S. Operations and movements of	275, 277,286,299
	Neutrality regulations, British	289,293, 322
	Southampton. Arrival at	398,400
	Sumter, C. S. S. Abandonment of	373
Crawford, Joseph T.
Correspondence with
	Havana, U. S. consul-general at		283
	Washington, British minister at	.	171
	Mentioned	171, 172, 232,283
Creesy, Josiah P.
Correspondence with
	Craven, T. Augustus	312, 319,322
	Navy Department, U. S	291, 386
	Palermo, U. S. consul at	372
	Pickering, Charles W	364
	Tucker, N. E	372
	Mentioned	310, 314, 386, 392,544,673
	Reports of
	   Commerce. Protection of	276
	Myers and Tunstall, Messrs. Seizure of, Feb. 19, 1862	312,318
	Privateers, Confederate. Search for	231
	Sumter, C. S. S. Abandonment of	386
	W. E. Alexander, schooner. Case of	371
Crenshaw, American schooner.
Capture of, Oct. 26, 1862. See Alabama, C. S. S. Journal of, Aug. 20, 1862,
to Jan. 4, 1863.
	Mentioned	- ..	527, 780,799, 800
Crescent, Steamer. Mentioned	768
Cridland, F. J. Mentioned	237
Crocker, Mr. Mentioned	216
Crol, J. D. Mentioned	362
          For correspondence, etc., see Curagao, Governor of.
Crusader, U. S. S. Mentioned	62, 111, 705
Cuba, Steamer Mentioned	432,492, 493
Cuba, American brigantine. Mentioned	619622,630,631,695,696a44
Cuddy, Thomas C. Mentioned	614, 684, 770
Cumberland, U. S. frigate. Mentioned	743
Cummings, Simeon W. Mentioned	614,684
Cura9ao, Governor of.
   Correspondence with
      Palmer, James S	205
      Porter, David D	79, 80,81,82
      Semmes, Raphael	621, 697
   Mentioned	78,93, 105,204,362,631,697, 69

Page 839

	INDEX.	839
Cura~ao, U. S. consul at.	Page.
   Correspondence with
      St. Thomas, U. S. consul at	47
      State Department US	89
  Mentioned	66,88,204,205,697
Curgenven, R. For correspondence, etc., see Sir Lewi8 T. Jone8.
Curlew, U. S. S. Mentioned	115, 117, 118
Curry, Azariah. Mentioned	598
Curtin, Andrew G. Mentioned	476
Curtis, Cornelius. Correspondence with Gustavus H. Scott	113
Cyane, U. S. S. Mentioned	25, 46,53,54, 56, 57, 71, 88,279,291,292,298,357
Dabney, Charles W. Mentioned	480,481,482, 541,546
For correspondence, etc., see Fayal, U. S. COn8ul at.
Dacotah, U. 5.5. Mentioned	214,217,
		219,224,230,246,251,252, 336, 338, 340,431,470, 472,487,488, 491493,
		505, 507,508,513,525,529,532,542,545,548, 556,586, 666,686,735,742
	Dade, F. C.
	Mentioned	437,442,452
   Report of escape of C. S. S. Florida into Mobile Bay, Sept. 4, 1862	444
Dahlgren, Charles B.
   Correspondence with Charles Wilkes	133
   Mentioned	134, 135
   Report of capture of Confederate Commissioners, Nov.8, 1861	138
Dahlgren, John A.
   Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	15,43,44
   Mentioned	15
Dale, U. 8.8. Mentioned	38,44,46
Dalton, 3. Frank. Report of escape of C. S. S. Florida into Moble Bay, Sept.
	4, 1862	451
Dalton, W. R. Mentioned	752
Daniel Trowbridge, American schooner.	Mentioned - 209,216,239, 637, 716, 717,744
Darling, T., &#38; Co. Mentioned	423, 424,427
Dames, Captain. Mentioned	568
Davis, Jefferson. Mentioned	14,2830, 122, 167,180,206, 407, 712, 769
Dawson, Frank. Mentioned	748
Day, Towboat. Mentioned	302
Daylight, U. S. S. Mentioned	51
De Camp, John.
	Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	242,272,273
  Mentioned	64,242,249,262,286, 289, 300, 309, 739
  Reports of
      Bermuda. Affairs at	257
      Commerce. Protection of	280, 303, 306
      Privateers, Confederate. Search for	362
Delafield, R. Mentioned	539
Delano, J. C. Correspondence with. Navy Department, U. S	493
Delisle, Emile S. Mentioned	559
DeLong, James. Mentioned	310, 312,314, 315, 317, 318, 358360,382
For correspondence, etc., see Tangier, U. S. consut at.
Delta, British steamer. Mentioned	521
Derby, Lord. Mentioned	741
Desperate, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	368, 488, 496, 497, 503, 511, 512,516
De Soto, U. S. S. Mentioned	208,245
Devastation, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	39

Page 840

	840	INDEX.
	 Page.
Devereaux, Captain. Mentioned	42,818
Devereur, A. S~ C. Mentioned	781
Dias, Don Mariano.
   Correspondence with Raphael Semmes	620
   Mentioned	620,625,696
Dimick, Justin.
   Correspondence with William L. Hudson	146
   Mentioned	146, 147, 148
Dixie, C. S. privateer. Mentioned	121,818
Dixie, Schooner. Mentioned	603
Doane, Daniel. Mentioned	51,818
Doblado Mentioned	355
Donaldson, Edward. Mentioned	109,459
Donegal, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	308, 368
Dornin, Thomas A. Mentioned	64,99
Douglas, Mr. Mentioned	427
Drain, Francis P. Mentioned	602
Drummond-Hay, John H.
   Correspondence with Raphael Semmes	671,672
   Mentioned	315,360, 665, 668, 670,671,673, 674, 678, 742
Duchaxel, M. E. F.
   Correspondence with Raphael Semmes	650, 651
   Mentioned	645
Dudley, Thomas H. For correspondence, etc., see Liverpool, U. ~. consul at.
Duguid, H. Mentioned	363,364, 763
Duncan, James. Mentioned	767
Duncan, Johnson K. Mentioned	628, 692,693
Dunkirk, American brigantine. Mentioned	527,780,793, 794
Dunlop, Hugh. Mentioned	159, 249,354, 355,368,369
Dunn, Edward T. Mentioned	585
Dunton, F. J. Mentioned	231,276
flu Pont, Samuel F.
Correspondence with
	Breese, Samuel L . - - 	- 114
	Gansevoort, Guert	420,426
	Marchand, John B	114
	Navy Department, U. S	15, 16, 113, 115117,422
	Ridgely, Daniel B	256
	Spotts, James H	-               420
	Mentioned	-	15,
124, 126, 129, 202, 225,259, 270,271,281, 389, 417, 422, 426, 472,541, 642, 643
Reports of
      Adirondack, U.5.5. Loss of Aug. 23, 1862	419
      Blockade runners. Movements of	258
Dyke, J. H. Mentioned	768
E - Cline, American schooner. Mentioned	49
E. Drummond, American schooner. Mentioned	104
E. J. Talbot, American schooner. Mentioned	247,251
E. W. Perry, American schooner. Mentioned	246
Eagle, American steamer. Mentioned	530,572
Eagle, Henry. Mentioned	232
Eastern State, American brig. Mentioned	597
East India Squadron. Movements of vessels of. Report of J. P. McKinstry. 24

Page 841

INDEX.
84t
		Page.
Eastman, Captain. Mentioned		225,226
Eben Dodge, American bark. Mentioned.		. 646,728,744
Echo, Brig. See Jeff. Davis, C. S. privateer.
Eclipse; American schooner. Mentioned. 		559
Economist, Steamer. Mentioned	- - 	400
Edgar, John T. Mentioned. - . -	289,603
          For correspondence, etc., see St. Thoma8, U. S. consul at.
Edge, George W. Mentioned	45,818
Edwards, John. Mentioned	13
Edwards, Thomas. Report of escape of C. S. S. Florida into Mobile Bay,
	Sept.4, 1862 -,	450
Eggleston, Ebenezer S. Mentioned	312,313,375,377
For correspondence, etc., see Cadiz, U. S. Consul at.
Eggleston, John R. Mentioned. - . 	768
Elias Reed, Confederate schooner.
	Mentioned	533536, 541,558
Seizure of:, Nov. 5, 1862.
	Communication from Navy Department, U. S	534
	Reports of Napoleon Collins	533,535
	Statements of
	   Johnstone, John A	536
	   Roberts, Stephen	536
Royley, Edward, et at                                 
Elisha Dunbar, American bark. Mentioned	780, 790
Eliza Bonsall, British ship. Mentioned	245,255,260,267,285
Ella Warley, Blockade runner. Mentioned	245,248,255,259,260,267,285
Elsinore, American brig. Mentioned	818
Embleton, Captain. Mentioned	427
Emily Farnham, American ship. Mentioned	510,517, 780,792,793
Emily Fisher, American brig. Mentioned	818
Emma, British schooner.
   Capture of, July 23, 1862. Report of Guert Gansevoort	402
   Mentioned	402,403,406
Emmerson, Captain. Mentioned	98
Empire Parish, Confederate steamer. Mentioned	693
Enchantress, American schooner. Mentioned	42,818
Endicott, Charles. Mentioned	231,276
Engle, Frederick. Mentioned	246
Enoch Train, Steamer. Mentioned	26
Enrica, Steamer. See Alabama, C. S. S.
Equal, Schooner. Mentioned	501
Eschol, American brig. Mentioned	480
Essex, U. S. frigate. Mentioned	274
Esther, American ship. Mentioned	487, 488
Eugenia Smith affair. See Agents, C. S. Seizure of, Dec. 7, 1861.
Eugenia Smith, British schooner. Mentioned	190, 192,220,232,233,235,237
Eustis, Captain. Mentioned	227
Eustis, Mrs. Mentioned	163
Eustis, George.
	Correspondence with Charles Wilkes	141, 142, 145
	Mentioned	130134,
136143, 151, 153, 155, 159, 167, 173, 177, 178, 180, 187, 192, 193, 196
Evans, Captain. Mentioned	427
Evans, James. Mentioned	- .. 748,75

Page 842

	842	INDEX.
Evans, William E	Page.
   Correspondence with Raphael Semmes	627
   Mentioned	613, 614,695, 696, 702, 703,711, 771
Evergiade, Steamer. Mentioned	18
Ewart, Charles J. F. Mentioned		428
flytinge, Henry S.
   Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S		126, 127
   Mentioned		224, 307, 346
   Reports of search for C. S. S. Sumter		222, 308
Ezilda, Confederate schooner. Mentioned		98
Fairfax, Donald McN.
   Correspondence with Charles Wilkes		133
	Mentioned	64, 130132, 134139, 155, 158, 163, 179
Report of capture of Confederate Commissioners, Nov. 8, 1861	133
Fairfield, George H. Mentioned		551,559
Falcon, British brigantine. Mentioned		717
Falmouth, Slaver.
   Case of. See Clarissa and Falmouth, Slavers	Case of.
   Mentioned                                      24,366,		367,374378
Falmouth, U. S. storeship. Mentioned		84, 9~
Fannie Lewis, British brig. Mentioned		501,570
Farnsworth, B. B., &#38; Co. Mentioned		781
Farragut, David G.
   Correspondence with
      Navy Department, U. S		455
      Preble, George H		433,434,440,459
Mentioned	356, 368,369,390, 434,440, 445,446,457, 458,461,463,468,472
  Report of escape of C. S. S. Florida into Mobile Bay, Sept. 4, 1862	431
Farrer, George W. Mentioned	268
Fauntleroy, Charles 1W. Mentioned	746, 752
Fayal, U. S. consul at.
   Correspondence with Daniel P. Upton	480
   Mentioned		480,482, 490,541,546,562
Fearn, Walker.
   Correspondence with Raphael Semmes		644
   Mentioned		735
Fergola, General. Mentioned		4-7
Fessenden, Samuel C. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	389
Fessenden, William P.
   Correspondence with
      Hood, Daniel	33
      Navy Department, U. S	33
   Mentioned	458, 459
Fifleld, J. C.
   Correspondence with William L. Hudson	42
   Mentioned	37, 4143,818
Fingal, British steamer. Mentioned	202, 230, 745
Fisher, Coxswain. Mentioned	794
Fisher, John T. Correspondence with Thomas Cann	528
Fitch, R. H. Correspondence with George H. Preble	452
Fitzhugh, William B. Mentioned	54
Flag, U. S. S. Mentioned	84
Flahault, Count. Mentioned	164, 165, 169, 177
Flambean, U. S. S. Mentioned	207, 222, 245, 246,254256, 259, 260, 270, 271
Florida, American steamer. Mentioned	1

Page 843

	INDEX.	84~
	Page~
Plorida, Schooner. Mentioned	- 582
Florida,* C. S. S.
Escape of, into Mobile Bay, Sept. 4, 1862.
Communications from
	   Farragut, David G                            433,440,455,		459
	   Lincoln, Abraham		459
	   Navy Department, C. S		76~
	   Navy Department, U. S		458
	   Preble, George H                                 434 441,		44~
	   Thornton, James S		457
	Court of enquiry
	   Findings and opinion                                 
	   Testimony of
	      Maffitt, John N. - - - 		464
	      Thornton, James S		460
	Abstract log of U. S. S. Oneida		432
	Reports of
	   Brown, F. S		443
	   Dade, F. C		444
	   Dalton, J. Frank		451
	   Edwards, Thomas		45~
	   Farragut, David G. - - 		431
	   Green, Francis M		449
	      Hassler C W	447
	      Herold, James - - - 	454
	      Naile, Fred. J	453
	      Parker, William	455~
	      Preble, George H	432,433, 439
	      Ross, Elijah	45~
	      Sicard, Montgomery	442
	      Taylor, John Y	449
	      Wood, George W	453
	   Statement of assistant engineers of U. S. S. Oneida	45?
	    See also Florida, C. S. S. Journal of, May 4, to Dec. 31, 1862.
	Fitting out of.
	   Communications from
	      Bulloch, James D	753, 755, 759
	      Liverpool, U. S. consul at	363
	      London, U. S. minister at	364
	Abstract log of, Aug. 17, 1862, to Jan. 15, 1863	769
	Journal of, May 4 to Dec. 31, 1862	763769
Mentioned	317, 363, 364, 373, 388, 397, 398, 399, 400, 404,407,408, 416?
419423,431,433,435,436438,440,442,443, 445455, 457460,462468,470,.
472, 476,506,513,558, 588, 685,686,753756, 758, 759761, 763767, 769, 771
Operations and movements of.
Communications from
	Bulloch, James D	759
	Grianell, M. H	46&#38; 
	Havana, Confederate agent at	760
	Low,John	757
	Maffitt, John N	760
	Navy Department, U. S	383

* Also known as the Manassas and the Oreto

Page 844

	344	INDEX.
Florida C. S. S.Continued	Page.
Operations and movements ofContinued.
	Instructions of Navy Department, C. S .. . .	758,762
	Reports of
	Maffitt, John N	- ..	759
	     Winslow, Francis	415
	       See also Florida, C. S. S., journal of. May 4 to Dec. 31, 1863.
	         Ab8trdct log of, Aug. 17, 1863, to Jan. 15, 1863.
	Search for.
	  Communications from
	     Havana, U. S. consul at	421
	     Lardner J L	421
	     Navy Department, U. S	897
	Pickering, Charles W	363, 364
Florida, U. S. S. Mentioned	115
Floyd, Richard B. Mentioned	760, 764, 765, 766, 769
Flying Mist, American schooner. Mentioned	339, 350
Forbes, John M.
   Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	38,39,41,43,288
   Mentioned	41,43
Forbes, 3. M., &#38; Co. Correspondence with Navy Department, U.S	102
Forbes, Robert B.
   Correspondence with
     Navy Department, U. S	21
     Ward, C.,jr	275
   Mentioned	99, 100,274,292
Ford, W. G. Mentioned	818
Foreign Office, British. Correspondence with
	Admiralty, British	158, 161, 163, 172, 325
   Mann, A. Dudley	152
   Napier, Lord	188
   Rost, P.A	152
   Washington, British minister at	159162, 165,
	165, 167170, 174, 176, 177, 188192, 194196
   Yancey, William L	152
Foreman, Robert. Mentioned	313
Forrest, Dulany A. Mentioned	768
Forrest, George. Mentioned	794,805,807
Forsyth, Colonel. Mentioned	768
Forsyth, Mrs. Mentioned	768
Forward, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	391
Foudre, French steamer. Mentioned	368
Fovette, French schooner. Mentioned	597
Fox, Gustavus V. Mentioned	194,223,309
For correspondence, etc., see Navy Department, U. S.
Foxhound, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	386
Frailey, James 1W.
   Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	242,249,290
	Mentioned	243,262,273, 280,303,309
Reports of
	Bermuda. Affairs at . .... 	257
	Blockade runners. Movements of	384
	Blockade rnnners. Search for	485
	Sumter, C.8.5. Search for	270,289,306
	St. Thomas. Arrival at	267
	West Indies. Affairs in	36

Page 845

	INDEX.	845
	Pago.
France, American ship. Mentioned	559*
Francis II, King of Naples. Mentioned	5,6;
Franklin, American brig. Mentioned	104
Fraser, Captain. Mentioned	31
Fraser &#38; Co. Mentioned	150, 152,775-
Fraser, Trenhoim &#38; Co.
   Correspondence with Raphael Semme~	662
   Mentioned	660, 664, 670, 689, 770, 78&#38; 
Fredonia; U. S. storeship. Mentioned	220, 357
Freeborn, U. S. S. Mentioned	341
Freeling, S. Mentioned	322, 328, 664~
For correspondence, etc., see Gibraltar, Governor of.
Freeman, Miles J.
   Correspondence with Raphael Semmes	666,669*
   Mentioned	614, 684~
Fremantle, Colond. Mentioned	738, 739*
French, Captain. Mentioned	59*
French, Henry. Mentioned	62
French, William H.
   Correspondence with U. S. vice-consul-general at Havana            
   Mentioned	109111, 20~
Fry, Joseph. Correspondence with Raphael Semmes	617
Fulton, American steamer. Mentioned	228,229*
Fulton, C. C. Correspondence with Navy Department, U.S	57T
Gaines, C. S. S. Mentioned	76T
Galena, U. S. S. Mentioned	476;
Gait, Francis L. Mentioned	613, 614, 686, 771
Gamble, William M Mentioned	257, 262,267, 27~
Gansevoort, Guert.
   Correspondence with
      Bahamas, Governor of	411
      Du Pont, Samuel F.	420,426;
      Hickley, H. D	405412
      Nassau, Governor of	410k
      Nassau, U. S. consul at	426;
      Navy Department, U. S	399,413,416,417
      Spotts, James H	422
	Mentioned	406,419,420,421,422,426,427
	Reports of
	  Adirondack, U. S. S. Loss of, Aug. 23, 1862	420, 422
	Emma, Confederate schooner. Capture of, July 23,1862	402
	Herald, blockade runner. Case of	403,406;
Garcia &#38; Co. Mentioned	26;
Gardner, Cecil. Mentioned	55~
Garland, A. Mentioned	578,595-
Garretson, Frederic. Mentioned		767
Gefken, J. W. Correspondence with Raphael Semmes		62T
Gemsbok, U. S. bark. Mentioned                         333, 513,515,		572
General Armstrong, U. S. S. Mentioned		27{
Gentry, M. P.
   Correspondence with State Department C S		65T
   Mentioned		688
Geoffroy, John. Mentioned                                   59,		818
George, Henry. Mentioned		34

Page 846

	846	INDEX.
	Page.
George B. Hunt, American bark. Mentioned. 	303
George G. Baker, Prize schooner.
   Mentioned	61.818
   Recapture of. Report of William A. Abbott	61
Georgina, British brigantine. Mentioned	561
Gerolt, Baron. Correspondence with Count Bernstorff	174
Gibraltar. Affairs at.
   Communication from Raphael Semmes	676
   Reports of Charles W. Pickering	358,365
Gibraltar, C. S. privateer. Mentioned	818
Gibraltar*. Mentioned	- ~. 601
Gibraltar, Governor of.
   Correspondence with
      Craven, T. Augustus	324, 327330,356
      Pickering, Charles W	360, 361, 366
      Semmes, Raphael	660, 668, 682
	Mentioned	322, 324,
327, 331, 352, 358, 361, 365, 654, 657, 660, 664, 665, 670, 738, 740742, 744
Gibraltar, U. S. consul at.
Correspondence with
	Bryson, Andrew	537
	Craven, T. Augustus	331, 352, 373, 382
	Lisbon, U. 8. minister at	537
	Liverpool, U. S. consul at	363
	London, U. 8. minister at	364,509
	Navy Department, U. S	305,508, 520, 524
	Pickering, Charles W	397, 576
Mentioned. - ~21, 317, 323, 328, 329, 358, 363, 366, 371, 373, 378, 381, 394, 396, 523,537,
540, 541, 562, 563, 576, 581, 588,589, 593, 609, 654, 660, 661, 662, 665, 667, 741
Gibson, William. Mentioned	235, 236
Gibson, Walter M. Mentioned	218
Giddings, George H. Correspondence with Ordnance Department C S	234
Gikie, Robert. Mentioned	534
Giraffe, British st6amer. Mentioned	588
Giraud, Pierre. Mentioned	263
Gillem, Alvan C. Mentioned	110
Gilliard, Doctor. Mentioned	765
Gladden, Mr. Mentioned	233
Gladiator, British steamer. Mentioned	202,211,224227,230,
245,248,249,255,256,258,259, 260,266,268, 273, 280282,285,484,512,516
Glasse, Frederick H.
   Correspondence with Thomas Cann	528
  Mentioned	595,596
Glendy, William M.
   Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	272,394, 600
   Mentioned	64
Glenn, American bark. Mentioned	818
Glisson, Oliver S.
   Correspondence with
      Bermuda, Governor of	596,597
	Cape Verde Islands, U. S. consul at	607
	Navy Department, U. 8	517,531
	Riuggold, Cadwalader	597, 606,607

* Formerly C. S. S. Sumter

Page 847

	INDEX.	847
Glisson, Oliver 5.Continued.	Page.
   Mentioned	- 545, 608
   Reports of
      Alabama, C. S. S. Search for	592
      Neutrality regulations, British	595
Glynn, James.
   Correspondence with
      Havana, U. S. vice-consul-general at	62
      Navy Department, U. S	84, 103,271
   Mentioned	223
   Reports of
      Commerce. Protection of	101,250
      Privateers, Confederate. Search for	95, 219
      Sumter, C. S. S. Operations and movements of	62
      Sumter, C. S. S. Search for	224
Godon, Sylvanus W. Mentioned	63
Golden, William H. Mentioned	538
Golden Eagle, British schooner. Mentioned	581
Golden Rocket, American ship. Mentioned	622, 630, 695, 744
Goldsborough, John R.
   Mentioned	52, 819
   Report of destruction of C. S. privateer York, Aug. 9, 1861	60
Goldsborough, Louis M.
   Correspondence with
     McKinstry, James P	431
     Navy Department, U. S	19
      Riuggold, Cadwalader	341
     Woodhull, Maxwell	431
	Mentioned	117, 333, 341, 342,417, 468, 486
   Report of capture of Confederate Commissioners, Nov. 8, 1~61	142
Good Luck, Spanish brig. Mentioned	570
Gordon, C. S. privateer. Mentioned	44, 5052, 59, 60, 67, 124, 149151, 245, 818
Gorgas, J. For correspondence, etc., see Ordnance Department, C. S.
Gortschakoff, Prince. Mentioned	176, 188
Gov. A. Mouton, C. S. privateer. Mentioned	818
Grace, Henry P.
   Correspondence with Charles Wilkes	133
   Mentioned	133138,337
   Report of capture of Confederate Commissioners, Nov.5, 1861	138
Grafton, Joseph D. Mentioned	768
Granada, American brig.
   Capture of, Oct. 12, 1861. Communication from A. C. Pettengill.	121
   Mentioned	121,818
Grant, James. Mentioned	496,497
Grappler, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	391
Graves, Mrs. Mentioned	768
Green, Charles. Correspondence with Navy Department U 5	475
Green, Daniel S. Mentioned	54
Green, Francis 1W. Report of escape of C. S. S. Florida into Mobile Bay,
          Sept. 4, 1862	449
Green, Joseph F.
   Mentioned	424
   Report of loss of U. S. S. Adirondack, Aug. 23, 1862	425
Greer, James A.
   Correspondence with Charles Wilkes	13

Page 848

INDEX.
848
Greer, James AContinued,	rage.
  Mentioned	131-434,136139
  Report of capture of Confederate Commissioners, Nov. 8, 1861	134
Grey Feather, Ship. Mentioned	231
Greyhound, British schooner. Mentioned	121
Greyhound, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	403, 404,406,408, 764
Grinnell, M. H. Correspondence with
  Navy Department, U. S	229
   State Department, U. S	468
Guadaiquivir, Spanish steamer. Mentioned	76~
Guerin, Mr. Mentioned	719
Guerriere, French steamer. Mentioned	368
Guthrie, John J.
   Correspondence with Alfred Taylor	12
   Mentioned	11, 12
  Report of capture of slaver Nightingale, April 21, 1861	13
H. G. Colhurst, American ship. Mentioned	2S~
Habana, Steamer. Afterwards C. S. S. Sumter, which see.
Hagar, George. Mentioned	510,518
Halifax, Nova Scotia, U. S. consul at. Correspondence with State Depart
	ment US	202
Hall, George W.
  Correspondence with Charles Wilkes	133
  Mentioned	134136, 138
  Report of capture of Confederate Commissioners, Nov. 5, 1861	137
Hall, W. K. Mentioned	43(}
Hallett, Virginia. Mentioned	768
Hamburg, U. S. consul at. Mentioned	388
Hamilton, American bark. Mentioned	574
Hamilton, William P. Mentioned	752
Hamilton, Megault &#38; Thompson. Mentioned	798
Hammond, E. For correspondence, etc., see Foreign Office, Briti8h.
Hampden, American brig. Mentioned	549,551554
Hanckel, Mr. Mentioned	15&#38; 
Handy, Robert.
   Correspondence with William L. Hudson	38,49
	Mentioned	42,49
	Report of search for Confederate privateers	49
Hannah Balch, American brig. Mentioned	68
Hannibal, American bark. Mentioned	347
Hanover, American schooner. Mentioned	818
Hardy, Pilot. Mentioned	527
Harkaway, British schooner. Mentioned	581
Harlan, David. Mentioned		54
Harriet Pinckney, British steamer. Mentioned	512,	51&#38; 
Harriet Spaulding, American bark. Mentioned		577
Harriman, Captain. Mentioned		818
Harringtcn, George. For correspondence, etc., see Treasury Department, U	S.
Harris, Captain. Mentioned		16
Harris, J. G. Mentioned		608
Harrisburg, American ship. Mentioned		512
Hart, David S. Mentioned		52
Hartford, U. 5. 5. Mentioned	246, 431433, 436, 440, 455, 456
Harvest Home, American ship. Mentioned	317, 360,677,679,74

Page 849

	INDEX.	849
	Page.
Harvay, 3ame~ E. Mentioned	370,376,388,482,507, 537,541,546
For correspondence, etc., see Lisbon, U. S. rnini8ter at.
Harvey Birch, American ship. Mentioned	156,221,230, 746
Harwood, Andrew A. For correspondence, etc., see Ordnance Bureau, U. S.
Hassaurek, Frederick. Mentioned	220
Hassell, Edward. Mentioned	752
Hassler, C. W. Report of escape of C. S. S. Florida into Mobile Bay, Sept. 4,
          1862	447
Haswell, Gouvenor K. Mentioned		423-425
Hatteras Inlet. Affairs at. Communications from
  Backus, Simeon -- - 		67
   Conley, John                                             
Hautefeuile. Mentioned		253
Havana, U. S. consul-general at.
Correspondence with
	Crawford, Joseph T	283
	French, William H	112
	Key West, Senior Officer U. S. Navy at	62,98
	McKinstry, James P	492
	Navy Department, U. S	492
	Ridgely, Daniel B	258, 302
	Spotts, James H	421
	Mentioned	48, 127, 130, 203, 218, 220, 232, 249,
256, 258, 270, 282, 301,302,356, 420,421,492,507, 557, 572, 586, 594, 705,766
Havener, Master. Mentioned	818
Haxtun, Milton.
   Mentioned	333
Report of escape of C. S. S. Nashville into harbor of Beaufort, N. C., Feb. 28,
	1862	334
Hay, Gilbert. Mentioned	818
Hays, Charles W. Mentioned	12, 13
Hays, William Lee. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	560
Hayes, Wingate. Mentioned	66
Hecate, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	391
Hedges, Philip. Correspondence with Robert B. Pegram	751
Helm, Charles 3.
   Correspondence with State Department, C. S	760
   Mentioned	757, 760
Henrietta, U. S. revenue cutter. Mentioned	66
Henry Nntt, American schooner. Mentioned	68
Henry W. Johnson, American schooner. Mentioned	31, 203
Herald, blockade runner. Case of.
Communications from
	Gansevoort, Guert	409,411,412
	Ilickley, H. D	408, 410,411
	Nassau, Governor of	410
	Reports of Guert Gansevoort	403,406
	Mentioned	400, 404,406,408,409,412, t13, 515, 556, 561
Herold, James. Report of escape of C. S. S. Florida into Mobile Bay, Sept. 4,
	1862	454
Herbert Manton, American schooner. Mentioned	68
Hero, American steamer. Mentioned	561
Hero, British steamer. Mentioned	413
    123A5

Page 850

	850	INDEX.
	Tag~
Hester, Joseph. Mentioned	508,509,683,684,688690
Hewett, William.
   Correspondence with British minister at WashingLon	193, 195
   Mentioned	157, 192, 193, 195, 196
Heyliger, Louis. Mentioned	757,759
Hickley, Henry D.
   Correspondence with Guert Gansevoort	408412
   Mentioned	404, 406408,410, 764
Hicks, William A.
   Correspondence with Raphael Semmes.	625
   Mentioned	99,613, 614
Hill, Bennett H. Mentioned	232,233
Hill, L. Mentioned	748
Hillyar, Henry S. Mentioned	122, 369,700
Hiram, Brig. Mentioned	577
Hitchcock, Robert B. Mentioned	463
Hitchins, Richard. Mentioned	71
Hoadley, D. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	77
Hobart, Augustus C. Mentioned	386
Holden, John F. Mentioned	613
Rollins, George N.
   Correspondence with Charles H. Bell	20
   Mentioned	20, 720
Hood, Daniel. Correspondence with William P. Fessenden	33
Hood, James. Mentioned	747, 749, 752
Hoole, James L. Mentioned	768
Hopkins, Mrs. Mentioned	768
Hord, William F. Mentioned	54
Homer, G. R. B. Mentioned	508
Houston, G. P. Correspondence with Charles Wilkes	604
Houston, James B -
   Correspondence with Charles Wilkes	133
   Mentioned	133, 135, 137, 139
   Report of captnre of Confederate Commissioners, Nov. 8, 1861	136
Howe, Charles. Mentioned	112
Howell, Becket K. Mentioned	614,686
Howlett, H. L. Mentioned	237, 238
Howes, Osborne, et al. For correspondence, etc., see Marine Society, Bo8ton.
Hoxie, Allen. Mentioned	367
Hoyt, Moses.
   Correspondence with F. 8. Lathrop et al	31
  Mentioned	31, 37, 203
Hudgins, Albert G.
   Correspondence with Raphael Semmes	621
   Mentioned	613, 614,631,696
Hudson, William L.
   Correspondence with
     Dimick, Justin	146
     Fifield,J.C	42
     Handy, Robert	38, 49
     Navy Department, U. 8	15,40, 42,49, 147, 148, 336, 337, 340, 344
     Wilkes, Charles	147
  Mentioned	15, 39, 147, 318, 336, 350, 351
Huger, Thomas B. Mentioned	91,76

Page 851

	INDEX.	851
Hull, Joseph B	Page.
  Correspondence with Silas H. Striugham	52
  Mentioned	84
Hulsemann, M. de. Correspondence with Count Rechberg	170
Hume, Mr. Mentioned	191
Hunt, Henry G. Correspondence with Thomas Cann	528
Hunt, Timothy A.
   Correspondence with John B. Montgomery	55
  Mentioned	25,298
Hunter, Captain. Mentioned	385
Hunter, Charles. Mentioned	505
Hunter, Robert M. T. For correspondence, etc., see State Department, C. S.
Hunter, Thomas T. Mentioned	767, 768
Huntsville, U. S. S. Mentioned	203
Huse, Caleb. Mentioned	752
Hutchinson, Samuel W. Mentioned	614,619
Hutchison, James. Mentioned	800
Hutton, Frederick. Mentioned	121
lasigi, Goddard &#38; Co. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	240,241
Idalia, English schooner. Mentioned	340
Tnglis, John, Sir. Mentioned	739
I~graham, Duncan N. Mentioned	149, 150
Ingraham, John H. Mentioned	748, 752
Inman, William.
   Correspondence with Charles Wilkes	64
	Mentioned	24
	Reports of movements of vessels of African Squadron	63,99
mo, U. S. S.	Mentioned     231,276,292,310, 312,313, 315, 316, 359,360, 363, 370, 372,
381, 383, 386, 392, 525, 526,529,671, 673, 674,676-680,685, 687, 735, 742, 743
Investigator, American bark.
Capture of, Jan. 18, 1862. See Snmter, C. S. S. Operation8 and movements
of.	Report of Raphael Semmes, p. 654, and josrnal, May 24, 1861,
to April 11, 1862.
	Disposition of, as prize	659
	Mentioned	656, 659, 738, 744
Iris, British vessel Mentioned	365
Iroquois, U. 8. 8. Mentioned	7,20,21,27,40,41,43,62, 96,
118, 119,216, 217,219,222,224,242,243,247, 251,252,258, 261,267, 271273,
280, 286,293, 300, 307, 309, 362, 641,642,645, 649652,686, 721724, 727, 735
Isaac, S. Correspondence with 11. B. Pegram	751
Isabel, Steamer. See Ella Warley, Blockade runner.
    Mentioned	124, 245,255
Isabella, C. S. privateer. Mentioned	818
Isabella, Schooner	568
Isard, Masters mate. Mentioned	618
Itasca, American brig. Mentioned	68
Ivy *, C. 5. 5. Mentioned	302, 692, 693
J. E. Coffee, Steamer. See Winslow, C. S. privateer.
J. M. Chapman, American schooner. Mentioned	339, 341, 346, 350
J. J. Spencer, American schooner. Mentioned	206
J. 0. Nixon, C. 8. privateer. Mentioned	818
J. P. Ellicott, American brig. Mentioned	818
J. W. Warner, American schooner. Mentioned	37,42
Jackson, C. 8.8. Mentioned	302,618

* Formerly V. II. Ivy, C. S. privateer

Page 852

	852	1NPF~x.
		Page.
Jackson, Charles. Mentioned		388
Jackson, M.	M. For correspondence, etc., see Halifax, Nova Scotia, U. S. con-
8U1 at.
Jackson, William H. Mentioned		768
James Adger, U. S. S. Mentioned	115, 125, 129,156, 160, 168,225, 226,253,254
Jamestown, American schooner. Mentioned		45
Jamestown, U. S. Sloop of war		475
Jamieson, Robert. Mentioned		340
Jarvis, Charles B. Mentioned		781
Jarvis, Francis 1W. Mentioned		781
Jarvis, John H. Mentioned		781
Jarvis, Sarah B. Mentioned		781
Jason, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	368,693
Jefferson Davis, C. S. privateer. Mentioned.. 3740,42, 44,49,56,69,241,406,637,818
Jeffers, William. Mentioned	340
Jefferson, Thomas. Mentioned	186
Jenkins, John G. Mentioned	661
Jesurun, Moses. Mentioned	66
           For correspondence, etc., see Cura9ao, U. S. consul at.
John Adams, American schooner. Mentioned	818
John Bunyan, American ship. Mentioned	259
John Carver, American brig.
   Capture of, Aug., 1861. Communication from Ellen McCarthy	241
   Mentioned	46,241,818
John C. Daily, American schooner. Mentioned	239
John Goodwin, American ship. See Mary Goodeil.
John N. Genin, Americau schooner. Mentioned	211
John Welsh, American brig. Mentioned	37,38,42,818
Johnson, Captain. Mentioned	602,604
Johnson, Henry L. Mentioned	276
Johnson, Philip C. Mentioned	24
Johnstone, John A. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	536
Joines, John. Mentioned	351
Jones, . Mentioned	764
Jones, Catesby Ap R. Mentioned	506
Jones, A. G.
   Mentioned	577,578,595
   Correspondence with Raphael Semmes	782
   Deposition concerning steamer Ariel	783
Jones, J. D. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	9,508
Jones, J. D., et al. Correspondence with Abraham Lincoln	9
Jones, Lewis T., Sir.
   Correspondence with Captain Seymour	405
   Mentioned	405
Jones, Thomas. Mentioned	752
Jones, Wesley. Discharge of prisoners	52
Jonqui~res, A. A. de. Mentioned	368
Jorgen Lorentzen, Danish bark.
   Mentioned	263265, 353
   Seizure of, Dec. 26, 1861.
      Communications from
         Navy Department, U. S	265
         State Department, U. S	264
      Reports of Henry T. Moore	263,26

Page 853

INDEX.
853
	Pagn
Joseph, American brig. Mentioned	28,29, 30, 818
Joseph Maxwell, American bark.
Capture Qf, July 27, 1861. See Sumter, C. S. S. Search for. Report of
Davi~1 D, Porter, p. 104. Also Sumter, C. S. S. Operations and
movements of. Report of Raphael Semme8, p. 628, and journal,
May 24, 1861, to April 11, 1862.
Disposition of, ~s prize. Communication from Raphael Semmes	625
Mentioned	- ~. 62, 63, 68, 69, 78, 98, 104, 105, 625, 626, 632, 633, 699, 744
Joseph ~. ~Qu~tQn, American schooner. Mentioned	541
Joseph Park, American brig.
Capture of, Sept. 25, 1861. See Sumter, C. S. S. Operations and movements
of. Report of Raphael Semmes, p. 628, ~nd journal, May 24,1861,
tQ April 11, 1562.
DispesitjQn of, as prize. Communication from Raphael Semmes	627
   Mentioned	209,627,4336,4337, 711,744
Joyce, R. 0. Mentioned	50~, 740, 741
Julia Usher, steamer. Mentioned	400
Kanawha, U. 8. 8. Mentioned	436
Karnak, British steamer. Mentioned	266
Kate, Blockade runner, Nentior~ed -. 284, 404, 408, 413,501,556,561,562,568,570,763
Kearsarge, U. S. S. Mentioned	~S4, 292,297,317,
320,331,359, 361, 366, 370, 371, 381383, 392,393,395,397, 399, 401,405,479,
481,509,517, 520524,526, 531, 537, 540,541,580,586, 676,680, 681, 685, 743
Keene, I~enry T.
	Correspondence with William Rouckendorif	590
	Mentioned	549, 554, 590
   Report of escape of C. S. S. Alabama from ~1artinique, l~ov. 19, 1862	553
Keith, Dennis. Mentioned	340
Kell, John M.
  Correspondence with Raphael Semmes	666,669
	Mentioned	613, 614, 686, 771
Kellogg, iWortimer. Mentioned	559
Kendall, W. T. Mentioned	818
Kennebec, U. S. S. Mentioned	436
Kensington, U. 8.8. Mentioned	337, 349, 350
Kent, James. Mentioned	143
Keystone State, U. S. S. Mentioned.... 48, 66,72, 73, 79, 82, 8991, 101, 105, 111, 118,
120, 123, 205, 221, 222,248,257,258,267,268,270, 419, 641,705, 717, 727,735
Kimball, Master. Mentioned		66
Kimball, Mr. Mentioned		26
King, D. R., &#38; Co. Correspondence with I~avy Department, U. S		23,26
King, James. Mentioned		527
King, T. Butler. Mentioned		232
King, William. Mentioned		527
Kingston, Governor of. Mentioned	811
Klengender, Melohir G. Mentioned	227
Klingander, Mileba G. Mentioned	593
Knapp, William, jr. Mentioned	402,403,406
L. Boardman, American steamer. Mentioned	338
La Bayennaise, French steamer. Mentioned	391,401
Labuan, British steamer. Mentioned	368
La Cornelie, French steamer. Mentioned	391
Lodona. Steamer. Mentioned	400. 413
Lady Davis, C. S. privateer. Mentioned . . . 	3

Page 854

	854	INDEX.
Lafayette, American ship	Page.
Captuire of, Oct. 23, 1862. See Alabama, C. S. S. Journal of, Aug. fO, 1863,
to Jan. 4, 1863.
  Mentioned	527, 780,	79~
Lafitte, John B. Mentioned	   427,	759
La Galath6e, French steamer. Mentioned		391
Laird &#38; Co. Mentioned		416
Lamar, C. W. Mentioned		17
Lamb, Robert B. Mentioned		172
Lambert, Master. Mentioned	-- -	492
Lambdin, John H. Mentioned		781
Lambdin, Robert P. Mentioned		781
Lambdin, Thomas J. Mentioned		781
Lamothe Piquet, French steamer. Mentioned		391
Lamplighter, American bark. Mentioned	527, 780,795
Landrail, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	101,345
Lancaster, U. 8. 8. Mentioned	46,47,53, 54,71, 88, 279, 401
Lanman, Joseph. Mentioned	401
La Paz, Lower California. Protection of. Communication from Robert
Ritchie                                         
La Plata, British steamer. Mentioned		163
Lardner, James L.
Correspondence with
	McKinstry, James P	492
	Spotts, James H	421
	Mentioned	398,416,420,422,423,431,471,472,487,492,507,508
Latham, Milton S. Correspondence with Navy Department, U.S		44
Lathrop, F. S. Correspondence with
  Navy Department, U. S		37,229
  Welch, R. W		203
Lathrop, F. S., et al. Correspondence with
  Hoyt, Moses		31
   Navy Department, U.S		31
Lauraetta, American bark.
Captnre of, Oct. 28, 1862. See Alabama, C. S. S. Journal of, Aug. 30,1863,
to Jan. 4, 1863.
  Mentioned	527,780,801,802
Lawrence, Messrs. Mentioned	527
Layard, Austen H. Mentioned	676,687
Leach, Joseph. Mentioned	818
Lebby, Henry S. Mentioned	121, 818,820
Le Cassini, French steamer. Mentioned	391
Le Diamant, French steamer. Mentioned	391
Le Duguay, French steamer. Mentioned	391
Leeds &#38; Co. Mentioned	691
Lee, Samuel P.
   Correspondence with
      Navy Department, U. 8	508,509,518,529,608
      Ronckendorff, William	510,517,520
   Mentioned	486, 544,559, 574
Lees, Judge. Mentioned	.... 764
Lemprieu, Charles.
   Correspondence with George Burgess	234
  Mentioned	233
L[enthalil, J(ohnj. Mentioned	46,246,47

Page 855

	INDEX.	855
	Page.
Leopard, British steamer. Mentioned	40*), 413, 501,556,562
LeRoy, William B.
   Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	221,222, 239, 243,268
	Mentioned	63, 257,258,267,270
Reports of
	Bermuda. Affairs at	261
	Commerce. Cruise for protection of	247
Levant, British sioop of war (prize). Mentioned	274
Levant, U. S. sloop. Mentioned	53
Le Vert, Mrs. Mentioned	768
Levi Starbuck, American ship. Mentioned	551, 780,802
Lewis, Richard. Mentioned	- 348
Lewis, Rodman. Mentioned	86
Liberia, President of. Mentioned	13
Lilly, A. Correspondence with War Department, C. S	821
Lincoln, Captain. Mentioned	551
Lincoln, Abraham.
Correspondence with
	Jones,J.D., etal	9
	l~avy Department, U. S	458
	New Jersey, Governor of	19
	Preble, George H	441
	Satterthwaite, T. B	221
	Senate, U.S	459
~ Mentioned	474, 175, 687
Linnekin, Thomas 3. Mentioned	52,818
Lisbon, U. S. minister at.
   Correspondence with
      Craven, T. Augustus	530, 573, 580
      Gibraltar, U. S. consul at	537
      Pickering, Charles XV	490
   Mentioned	288, 370, 376, 388, 482, 490, 507,537,541,546, 562
Liverpool, U. S. consul at.
   Correspondence with
      Craven,T. Augustus	415
      Gibraltar, U.S.consul at	363
   Mentioned	211, 225,230, 364, 575, 771
Livingston, C. 8. 5. Mentioned	302
Lloyds, Steamer. Mentioned	413
Locke, Erie. Mentioned	356
Lockwood, Captain. Mentioned	556
Lockwood Brothers. Mentioned	245
Lockwood, Thomas 3. Mentioned	124, 151, 818
London, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	330, 356, 357, 360
London, U. S. consul at.
   Correspondence with John B. Marchand	226.227
   Mentioned	211,225,230,575
London, U. S. minister at.
   Correspondence with
      Craven,T. Augustus	276,295,395,415
      Gibraltar, U. S. consul at	364, 509
      Marchand, John B	226
   Mentioned	126, 156, 160, 161, 168,
169, 190, 191,201,225,230,238, 286,293,299, 364, 395397,399,401,405,41

Page 856

	856	INDEX.
	Page.
Lorenoez, Charles. Mentioned	368
Loring, Mr. Mentioned	543
Loroda, Captain. Mentioned	556
Lorton, C. S. privateer. Mentioned	818
Louisa Kilham, American bark. Mentioned	619, 620, 622, 630,695, 744
Low, John.
   Correspondence with James D. Bulloch	756, 757
   Mentioned	756,763
Luf kin, Henry 3. Mentioned	781
Lufkln, Mark H. Mentioned. - 	781
Lydia Martin, Brig. Mentioned	59
Lynch, Junius 3. Mentioned	762
Lyon, Nathaniel. Mentioned	712
Lyons, Lord. Mentioned	159161,165, 169,534,536,569
For correspondence, etc., see Washington, British minister at.
M.	Sandford, American steamer. Assistance rendered U. S. troops on. Report
	of Edward Cavendy	587
M.	S. Perry, Steamer. See Salvor, steamer.
MoBlair, Charles H. Mentioned	767, 768
McCarthy, Ellen. Correspondence with War Department U S	241
McCarty, John. Mentioned	241
MoCaskey, Benjamin P. Mentioned	614,684
MoClintoc, H. G. Mentioned	752
McCook, Roderick S. Mentioned	28
Macdonald, Francis, &#38; Co. Mentioned	80~
Moflougal, Charles J.
  Correspondence with H. 0. Monutt	374
  Mentioned	387, 394
  Report of Chinese neutrality regulations	373
MoDougal, David.
Correspondence with
	Bell, Charles H	304,394
	Montgomery, John B	58,220
	Navy Department, U. S	301
  Mentioned	36,240,280,303,357
  Report of affairs in Chinese waters	472
Macfarland, James B.
	Correspondence with Charles Wilkes	141, 142, 145
Mentioned	130143, 153, 155159, 167, 173, 177, 178, 180, 187, 192, 193, 195, 196
MoGilvery, Captain. Mentioned	42,818
MoGlinchy, Captain. Mentioned	559
McGrath, William H. Mentioned	107
MoGuire, Thomas. Certificate of identification of John McCarty	241
Mollvaine, William D. Correspondence with George H. Preble	452
McKay, Mr. Mentioned	110112
MoKean, William W. Mentioned	301,302,705
MoKillop, Henry F. Mentioned	281, 764
MoKinstry, James P.
   Correspondence with
      Goldsborough, Louis M	43~
      Havana, U. S. consul-general at	492
     Lardner, James L	492
     Nassau, U. S. consul at	487
     Navy Department, U.S	251,51

Page 857

	INDflx.	857
MoRinstry, James P.Continued	Page.
Correspondence withContinued.
Paulding, Hiram	
	Wilkes, Charles	514
	Mentioned	217,219, 488,491, 493,532,556
Reports of
	Alabama, C. S. S. Search for	545
	Coal. Supplies of	486
      Commerce. Cruise for protection of	491
      East India Squadron. Movements of vessels of	246
      Vermont, U. S. S. Search for, March 1April 12, 1862	340
McLane, Allan.
   Correspondence with
      Aspinwall, William H	16
      Navy Department, U. S	14, 17, 72,73, 78
   Mentioned	48,78
McLellan, Thomas. Mentioned	818
MoLenan, John. Mentioned	112
McMurtrie, Horace. Correspondence with George H. Preble	452
McQueen, Alexander.
   Correspondence with owners of British bark Agrippina	771
   Mentioned	527, 559, 774
McRae, C. S. S. Mentioned	81,82,91, 302,618
lVlacedonian, 11. S. S. Mentioned	... 84,95, 101, 103,204, 210,223,229,247,271
Machas, American brigantine. Mentioned	619, 620, 622, 630, 695, 744
Mackenzie, George. Correspondence with Post-Office Department, U. S .... 228
Macomb, William H. Correspondence with Joshua H. Sands	32
Macon, John. Mentioned	745, 752
Macy, Seth W. Correspondence with wavy Department, U. S	66
Madeira, U. S. consul at. Mentioned	320
Madison, James. Mentioned	186,741
Madrid, U. S. minister at. Correspondence with
   Craven, T. Augustus	317, ~20, 359, 370
  Mann, Matthias C	375, 376, 377
   Pickering, Charles W	.... 360
Maffit, John N.
   Assumes command of C. S. S. Florida	758
   Correspondence with
      Bulloch, James D	755,760
      ~avy Department, C. S	758, 761, 762
      Testimony before court of enquiry	4~4
      War Department, C. S	758
Mentioned	419421,464, 466,685,686, 756,757, 760, 761, 769, 771
Report of operations and movements of C. S. S. Florida	759
See Florida, C. S. S. Abstract log of, Aug. l~, 1861, to Jan. 15, 1863, and
journal of, May 4 to Dec. 31, 1861.
Magnolia, U. S. S. Mentioned	408,419,420,422,423
Mahan, Alfred I. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	 	87
Maitland &#38; ?helps. Mentioned		205
Major Barbour, British schooner. Mentioned		63
Malcolm, Captain. Mentioned	555,556,571
Mallory, Stephen H. For correspondence, etc., see Navy Department, C. S.
Manassas, Steamer. See Florida, C. S. S

Page 858

	858	INDEX.
		Page~
Manassas, C. S. privateer. Mentioned		818
Manassas,* C. S. S. Mentioned	302
Manchester, American ship. Mentioned	527, 780,794
Mann, A. Dudley.
  Correspondence with Foreign Office, British	152
   State Department, C. S		154
Maranham, Governor of. Correspondence with David D. Porter		92
Maranham, U. S. consul at. Mentioned	107, 120, 636, 708,709
Marchand, John B.
  Correspondence with
     Da Pont, Samuel F	114
     London, U. S. consul at	226,227
     London, U. S. minister at	226
     Sanford, H. S	225
  Mentioned	115, 156, 160, 161
  Reports of
     Blockade runners. Search for - - - - ~	224
     Nashville, C. 5. 5. Search for	114, 124, 128
Maria, American brig. Mentioned	91, 103, 107, 124
Maria Adelaide, Sardinian frigate. Mentioned	6,7
Mann, Matthias C.
   Correspondence with
     Cadiz, U. S. consul at	377
     Madrid, U. S. minister at	375,376,377
     Navy Department, U. S	288, 290,388,469
   Reports of
     Cadiz, ~Spain. Arrival at	361
     Canary Islands. Arrival in	393
     Clanissa and Falmouth, slavers. Case of	366, 374
     Commerce. Depredations upon	482
     Commerce. Protection of	388,519
     Fayal. Arrival at	395
     Madeira. Arrival at	403
Marine, American brig. Mentioned	239
Mariner, Blockade runner. Mentioned	501,506
Mariner, C. S. privateer. Mentioned	51,67,818
Marine Society, Boston. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	547
Marion, American steamer. Mentioned	85, 112
Marion, U. 8.8. Mentioned	43,44
Marque and reprisal. Letters of. Communication from U. S. Navy Depart
	ment	99
Marsh, George P. Mentioned	  364,	371
Marshall, C. H. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S		545
Marston, John. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	 	333
Martin, Masters mate. Mentioned		61
Martinique, Governor of. Correspondence with
  Palmer, James S		210
  Rouckendorif, William		550
  Semmes, Raphael	647,648,649
Martinique, U. S. consul at.
  Correspondence with William Ronckendorff		551
	Mentioned	209,213, 637, 649, 719, 720

* Formerly C. S. privateer

Page 859

	INDEX.	859
Marvin, William		Page.
   Decision in case of schooner Mont Blanc		600
  Mentioned	110, 111, 536, 600
Mary Alice, American schooner. Mentioned	818
Mary E. Morgan, American schooner. Mentioned	574,582.583
Mary E. Thompson, American brig. Mentioned	38,818
Mary Goodell, American ship. Mentioned. - -		37,42,818
Mary Pinkney, British steamer. Mentioned		484
Mason, C. S. [gunboat ~]. Mentioned		302
Mason, James M. Capture of, Nov. 8, 1861. See Commi8sioner8, Confeder-
ate. Capture of, Nov. 8, 1861.
Correspondence with
	Admiralty, British	157
	Bulloch, James D	690,770,775,777
	Navy Department, C. S	670,691
Semmes, Raphael	659, 662, 663, 670,673, 674, 676, 678, 681, 684,740
Somerset, Duke of	157
State Department, C. S	148, 150, 151, 676, 679, 688, 690, 752
Wilkes, Charles	139, 141, 142, 146
Mentioned .... 113115, 124, 125, 129143, 148, 152, 155, 156, 158178, 180, 187, 192196
198, 202, 262, 281, 642, 663, 664, 683685, 689,723, 727, 735, 740, 743, 745747
Mason, Mrs. Mentioned		753
Massachusetts, U. 8.8. Mentioned		34,426,540,561
Massachusetts, Governor of. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. 5. 44
Massena, French steamer. Mentioned		308,368
Matagorda, steamer. Mentioned		302
Matilda, C. S. privateer. Mentioned		818
Mattec, Mr. Mentioned		360
Matthews, Captain. Mentioned		351
Maury, [William L.?] Mentioned		155
Meade, Richard W., jr. Mentioned		54
Mediterranean Sea.
   Affairs in. Commnnication from U. S. consnl at Gibraltar		382
Movements of U. S. naral forces in. Reports of Charles H. Bell .. 20,23, 26,35
Melita, British steamer. Mentioned		388, 400,413,686
Mellen, Captain. Mentioned		551
Melpomene, H. B. M. S. Mentioned		428
Memminger, Charles G. Mentioned		613
Memphis, steamer. Mentioned		400
Merchant vessels. Licenses to. Communication from U. S. consul at Nassau,
	New Providence	581
Mercier, Henri.
  Correspondence with B. A. Thouvenel		164
  Mentioned		165, 166, 169, 177
Mercure, French ship. Mentioned		720
Merida, Mexico, U. S. consul at. Correspondence with Charles Wilkes.. 602
Merlin, British steamer. Mentioned	511,516
Mermaid, American schooner. Mentioned	818
Merrimac, British steamer. Mentioned	400,484
Merrimack, C. S. S. [Virginia, C. S. S.] Mentioned	382, 743
Merrimack No. 2, C. S. S. [Virginia, No. 2, C. S. S.] Mentione4	476
Mersey, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	308,368,381
Mervine, William. Mentioned	62, 68, 72,73,83, 103
Messina, Italy. Disturbances at. Report&#38; of Charles H. Bell	4,5,6
Mexico. Affairs in. Reports of.
  Bell, Charles H .. . 	38

Page 860

	860	INDEX.
Mexico. Affairs in. Reports ofContinued.	Page.
  Powell, Levin M	.. 307,354, 355, 368,379,380, 390
Middleton, Edward.
   Correspondence with
     Bell, Charles H	304, 383
     Montgomery, John B	56,57,77
   Mentioned	57,77,86,303,383
Miller, Joseph N. Mentioned	30
Miller, Thomas. Mentioned	53
Miller, W. C. Mentioned	364
Milne, Alexander, Sir. Mentioned	157,159, 161, 162,247,261, 284, 563, 582
Milo, British brig. Mentioned	805
Minho, British steamer. Mentioned	385, 400,413, 484,512,516
Minna, British steamer. Mentioned	388, 413
Minnesota, U. S. S. Mentioned	28,29, 341,692
Mitchell, John K. Mentioned	25,36
Mohican, U. 5. 5. Mentioned	63, 517, 525,529,531,545,592,597,608,666,742
Moir, James.
   Correspondence with British Admiralty	172
  Mentioned	139, 140, 172174
Moise, E. Warren.
   Correspondence with Raphael Semmes	625, ~l26
  Mentioned	624
Monitor, U. S. S. Mentioned	336,338,382,476
Monroe, James. Mentioned	186
Montauk, U. 8.8. Mentioned	548
Mont Blanc, British schooner. Capture of, December 25, 1862.
  Communication from Navy Department, U. S.	598
  Decree of U. S. district court	600
  Reports of Napoleon Collins	598,599,600
  Mentioned	598, 599, 600
Montgomery, U.S. S. Mentioned	505, 506
Montgomery Brothers. Mentioned.	798,799
Montgomery, John B.
   Correspondence with
     Bissell, Simon B	54,57
     Hunt, Timothy A	55
     McDougal, David	58,220
     Middleton, Edward	56,57,77
     Murray, Francis K	55,86
     Navy Department, U. S	15,601
     Nichols, Edward T	601
     Ritchie, Robert	. 76
     Watson, James M	239
   Mentioned	1517,25
   Reports of
      Commerce. Protection of	71
Pacific Squadron. Operations an4 movements of vessels ~ 46,53,86,88
Monti, Luigi. Mentioned	371,372
For correspondence, etc., eee Palermo, U. S. con8ta at.
Moutmorenci, American ship.
Capture of Nov. 25, 1861. See Sumter, C. S. S. Tourual of, Ma~ 4, 1861,
to April 11, 1862.
	Disposition of, as prize	653
	Mentioned	215,224,267,271,300,646,653,725,74

Page 861

	INDEX.	861
Monutt, H. G. Correspondence with Charles J. MeDongal	Page.
	374
Mooltan, British steamer. Mentioned	373
Moore, Henry T.
   Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	212
   Mentioned	264, 26~
   Reports of
      Commerce, U. S. Protection of	296, 35~
     Jorgen Loreutzen, Danish bark. Seizure of, Dec. 26, 1861	263, 265
     Privateers, Confederate. Search for	238,259
Moore, Thomas 3. Mentioned	818
Moore, Thomas 0. Mentioned	628,692
Moran, Benjamin. Mentioned	580
          For correspondence, etc., see London, U. S. mini8ter at.
Morgan, C. S. S. Mentioned	... 767
Morgan, Edwin D. For correspondence, etc., see New Yorlc, Governor of.
Morning Light, U. S. ship. Mentioned	212.259,263266,353
Morocco, Sultan of. Mentioned	371, 679
Morse, Freeman H. For correspondence, etc, see London, U. S	constd at.
Morse, Richard E. Mentioned		204
Morse, William H. Mentioned		597,607
       For correspondence, etc., see Cape Verde Islands, U. S	consul at.
Morrison, James H. Correspondence with George H. Preble		452
Mosquera, General. Mentioned		66,85
Mount Vernon, U. S. S. Mentioned		19
Muldaur, Alonzo W. Mentioned		232
Munro, Colonel. Mentioned		497
Murray, Francis K.
   Correspondence with John B. Montgomery		55,86
   Mentioned		36,86
Murray, John C. Mentioned		752
Murray, Robert. Mentioned		145
Murrell, J. W., Mrs. Mentioned		768
Music, C. S. privateer. Mentioned		818
Mutine, H. B. M. S. Mentioned		391
Myers, Master. Mentioned		818
Myers, Henry.
   Mentioned		310,311,
	358360,382,613,614,665, 668671,673,674,676678,687,742, 743
Seizure of. See Myers and Tunstati, Xessr8. Seizusie of, Feb. 19, ~862.
Myers, M.
   Correspondence with State Department, C. S	687
   Mentioned	687,688
Myers and Tunstall, Messrs. Seizure of, Feb. 19, 1862.
   Communications from
     Craven, T. Augustus	312
     London, C. S. Commissioner at	676
     Madrid, U. S. minister at	317,359
     Myers, M	687
     Pickering, Charles W	360
      Semmes, Raphael	~70, 671,673,674,677,678
     Tangier, U. S. consul at	310,311
   Reports of
     Craven, T. Augustus	310,392
      Creesy, Josiah P	312,31

Page 862

	862	INDEX
	Page.
Myrover, American schooner. Mentioned	104
Mystic, U. S. S. Mentioned	63, 90, 122, 666,742
Nagle, Henry. Mentioned	14
Nahant, U. S. S. Mentioned	543, 544,547
naiad, American brigantine. Mentioned	619, 620, 622, 630, 695, 744
Naiad, H. B. M. S.~ Mentioned	391
Naile, Fred. 3. Report of escape of C. S. S. Florida into Mobile Bay, Sept. 4,
	1862	453
Napier, Lord. Correspondence with British Foreign Office	188
Napoleon I, Emperor. Mentioned	702
Napoleon III, Emperor. Mentioned- - -... 156, 164, 180, 188,210,550,676, 678, 703, 732
Narragansett, U. S. S. Mentioned	25,46, 53, 71, 298, 303,304,357, 382, 584 -
Nashville, C. S. S.
Crnise of, Oct. 26, 1861, to Feb. 28, 1862. Report of Robert B. Pegram - - - - 745
Escape of, into harbor of Beaufort, N. C., Feb. 28, 1862.
Communication from Navy Department, U. S - --	333
Abstract log of U. S. S. State of Georgia	335
Reports of
	Armstrong, James F	332, 333
	Haxtun, Milton	334
See also Nashrifle, C. S. S. Crui8e of, Oct. 26, 1861, to Feb. 28, 1862.
	Mentioned	113-417, 120, 124126,128,
129, 149, 151, 152, 156, 160, 191, 202,219,221,228230,254,257,275279, 286,
289,293,294,297,299, 300, 322,332334, 382, 384, 732, 739, 745748, 750753
   Officers of, 1861	752
  Operations and movements of.
      Communication from Hiram Paulding	219
     Reports of
         Craven, T. Augustus	275, 277, 286, 299
        Pegram, Robert B	745
   Search for.
      Communications from
         Breese, Samuel L	114, 116
         Du Pont, Samuel F	114, 115, 117
         New York and Havre Steamship Company	228
      Orders of Navy Department, U. S	113, 116,230,297
      Reports of
         Marchand, John B	114, 124, 128
        Watmough, Pendleton G	117
         Woodhull, Maxwell	120
Nashville, Steamer. Mentioned	413
Nassau, Blockade runner. Mentioned	763
Nassau, Governor of. Correspondence with
   Gansevoort, Guert	410
   Nassau, U. S. consul at	487,488
   Temple, William G	553
Nassau, U. S. consul at.
   Correspondence with
      Gansevoort, Guert	428
      McKinstry, James P	487
   - Nassau, Governor of	487,488
      Navy Department, U. S	246,427,428
      Wilkes, Charles	490, 501, 555,562,570,581,588
      Mentioned	207,
253,398,399, 406408,416,423,470,486,487, 499, 500, 557,568,571, 76

Page 863

	INDEX.	863
Nassau, New Providence		Page.
  Affairs at.
      Communication from U. S. consul at Nassau		490
	Reports of William G. Temple	243,281
   Blockade runners at. Communication from Guert Gansevoort	. -	413
Nathaniel Chase. American schooner.
   Capture of, July 25, 1861. Communication from Charles H. Smith		51
   Mentioned	51,68,	818
National Guard, U. S. ship. Mentioned		560
Navy Department, C. S. Correspondence with
   Buchanan, Franklin		762
	Bulloch, James D	689, 753, 775
	Maffitt, John N	758, 761,762
   Mason, James M	670,691
   Semmes, Raphael	613,614, 615, 671
Navy Department, U. S. Correspondence with
   Andros, B. S., et al	22
	Bacon, Francis, et al	240
	Bailey, Theodorus	598
	Baldwin, Charles H	533,575
	Barney, Hiram.	548
	Bell, Charles H	274, 303, 391, 392,594
	Bierwirth, Leopold D., et al	229
	Blunt, E. &#38; G. W	67
	Blunt, George W	59
	Board of Trade, Boston	542,544
	Brasher, Thomas M	22,73
	Breese, Samuel L	15, 17, 19, 3941, 43, 85, 113, 116
	Brown, S. P	50
	Bryson, Andrew	479
	California mail steamers, agents of	393
	Cavendy, Edward	515
	Coggeshall, T. &#38; J	37
	Coleman, William T.,&#38; Co. etal	10
	Collins, Napoleon	483, 486, 534, 598
	Cooper, George H	604
	Corning, E. L	123
	Craven, T. Augustus	230,297,389,395, 405, 430,468,565,566
	Creesy, Josiah P	291, 386
	Dahlgrea, John A	15,43
	De Camp, John	242,272,273
	Delano, J C	493
	Dii Pont, Samuel F - - 	15, 16, 113, 115, 116,422
	Eytinge, Henry S	126, 127
	Farragut, David G	455
	Fessenden, Samuel C	389
	Fessenden, William P	33
	Forbes, JM	38, 39,41,43,288
	Forbes, J. M.,&#38; Co	102
	Forbes, B. B	- 21
	Frailey, James M	242,249,290
	Fulton, C. C	577
	Gansevoort, Guert	399,413, 416,417
	Gibraltar, U. S. consul at	305, 508, 520, 52

Page 864

	864	INDEX.
Navy Department, U. 5. Correspondence withContinued	Page.
	Glendy, William M	272, 394,600
	Glisson, Oliver S .. 	517,531
	Glynn, James	~4, 103,271
	Goldaborough, John R	19
	Green, Charles	475
	Grinnell, M. II	229
	Havana, U. S. vice.consul-general at	98
	Hays, William Lee	560
	Hoadley, D	77
Hudson, William L	15,40,42, 147,337, 340, 344
lasigi, Goddard &#38; Co	240,241
Jolinstone, John A	536
Jones, J. D	.9,508
Jones, Wesley	52
King,D.R., &#38; Co	23,26
Latham, Milton S	44
Lathrop, F. S	37,229
Lathrop, F. S., et at	31
Lee, Samuel P	508, 509,517,518,529,608
LeRoy, William E	221,222,239,243,268
MeDougal, David	301
McKinstry, James P	251,518
McLane, Allan	14, 17, 72, 73, 78
	Macy,S.W	66
Mahan, Alfred T	87
Mann, Matthias C - . .	288,290,388,469
Marine Society, Boston	547
Marshall, C. H	545
Marston, John	333
Massachusetts, Governor of	44
Montgomery, John B	15,601
Moore, Henry T	212
Nassau, U. S. consul at	246,427,428
New Jersey, Governor of	24
New York, Governor of	475, 476,539,546,548
Nickels, J. Frederick	523
Palmer, James S	82,83,216,240
Parrott, Enoch G	30
Paulding, Hiram	145,219,249, 336338,341,343345,527,529,532,544
Pearson, George F	15,43,44
Pendergrast, Garrett J	529
Perkins, William	240
Pettengill, A. C	121
Pickering, Charles W	284,331,405, 52~, 524,584
Platt, Charles, et at	. 59,60
Porter, David D	65,71,83
Preble, George H	434,445
Richards, A. C	. 570,577
Ridgely, Daniel B	127,206, 233, 270, 301, 387,388,389
Ringgold, Cadwahtder	522,524
Rogers, William C	100
Ronekendorif, William	528, 544
Royley, Edward	... 53

Page 865

	INDEX.	865
Navy Department, U. S. Correspondence withContinued,	rage.
   St. Thomas, U. S. consul at	118,589
	Sands, Joshua 11	70
	Sattertliwaite, T. B	292
	Scott, Gustavus H	48
	Smith, Elisha D	36
	Smith, John T	526, 528
	Spotford, Tileston &#38; Co	85
	State Department, U. ~	88, 99,264,265
	Steedman, Charles	124
	Stone, David M	98
	Temple, William G	207,211,217,271
	Thatcher, Henry K	332
	Thomas, Charles	3
	United States, President of	9,458
	Vanderbilt, Cornelius	8, 604, 605,609
	War Department, U. ~	241
	Watkins, James T	387
	Weed,W.F.,&#38; Co	to
	Wenzell, Henry	26,27
	Wilkes, Charles	145, 146, 148,
470, 472,476, 477, 479, 491, 499, 510,525, 532,558,566,569,583,587, 606
   Williams, James M		525
   Williams, John                                           
   Winslow, Francis		397
Nazarine, American bark. Mentioned		96
Neapolitan, American bark. Capture of, Jan. 15, 1862. Communication	from
          U. S. minister at Madrid		370
    See also Sumter, C. S. S. Operation8 and movemente of. Report of	Raphael
Semme8, p. 654, and journal, May 24, 1861, to April 11, 1862.
	Mentioned	370, 371, 656, 737, 738, 740, 744
Nelson, 1W. Mentioned	74f3
Nelson, Thomas S. Mentioned	357
Nelson, William. Mentioned                                  
Nereus, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	391
Nesbitt, C. R. For correspondence, etc., see Aas8au, Governor of.
Neutrality regulations, Brazilian. Communication from David D. Porter... 92
Neutr~ity regulations~ British.
Communications from
	Bahamas, Governor of	- 254
	Bermuda, Governor of	493, 495,496, 596,597
	Chads, Henry		356
	Craven, T. Augustus                    278,279,294,295, 327,		328,430
	Foreign Office, British		325
	Gibraltar, Governor of		324,327,328,329,330,356
	Gibraltar, U. S. consul at                              305,331,		352
	Glisson, Oliver S		595
	Hedges, Philip		751
	Jones, Lewis T., Sir		405
	London, C. S. CommIssioner at		752
	London, U. S. minister at		276,295
	Monntt, H. G                                         
	Nassau, U. S. consul at		246
	Navy Department, U. S	569
	123i5

Page 866

	866	INDEX.
Neutrality regulations, BritishContinued	Page.
Communications fromContinued.
	Patey, Charles G.E	279,294,295,300, 749,750
	Pegram, Robert B	749,750,751
	Ronekendorif, William	528
	Semmes, Raphael	654, 660,667,668, 669, 682
	Shelby, John	418
	Stewart, Houston	429
	Temple, William G	253
	Warden, Frederick	327, 330
	Wilkes, Charles	494,496
	Willcox, J. A		278
	Proclamation of Governor of Bahama Islands	572
Reports of
	Craven, T. Augustus                                  289, 293,		322
	Glisson, Oliver S		595
	MeDongal, Charles J                                     
	Stevens, Thomas H		488
	Temple, William G		252
	Wilkes, Charles		500,571
See also	Commissioners, Confederate. Capture of, NOV. 8, 1861. Correspond-
ence laid before Parliament in 1861?. Also Florida, C. S. S. Fitting
out of. Communication from Navy Department, U. S., p. 397. Also
Herald, blockade runner. Ca8e of.
Neutrality regulations, French. Communications from
	Martiniqne, Governor of	210,648
	Semmes, Raphael	647, 649, 650,651
Neutrality regulations, Netherlands. Communications from
	Cura9ao,Governor of	80, 82,205
	Porter, David D	79,81
	Semmes, Raphael	621
Neutrality regulations, Spanish. Communications from Raphael Semmes.. 619,
	640,652, 653, 657,658,680
Neutrality regulations, Venezuelan. Communication from Raphael Semmes. 623
Neva, American ship. Mentioned	68
New Ironsides, U. S. S. Mentioned	476
New Jersey, Governor of. Correspondence with
   Lincoln, Abraham	19
   Navy Department, U. S	24
New Jersey. Protection of coasts of the State of. Communications from
   Navy Department, U. S	24
   New Jersey, Governor of	19
New York, Governor of. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	475,
	476,539,546,548
New York Harbor. Protection of. Communications from
  Navy Department, U. S	476
   New York, Governor of	475, 539,546,548
   New York,U.S. collector at	548
Niagara, U. S. S. Mentioned	641,692, 705, 727, 735
Nicholas, John B.
   Mentioned	64
   Report of capture of slaver Triton, May 21, 1861	24
Nichols, Edward T.
   Correspondence with John B. Montgomery	601
   Mentioned	60

Page 867

	INDEX.	867
	Page.
Nichols, W. C. Mentioned 	389
Nicholson, 3. W. A. Correspondence with Hiram Paulding	530
Nickels, 3. Frederick.
   Correspondence with
     Craven, T. Augustus	575
     Navy Department, U. S	523
   Mentioned	580
   Report of search eor C. S. S. Alabama	575
Nickerson, Captain. Mentioned	554
Nightingale, Slaver.
   Capture of, April 21, 1861.
     Communication from Alfred Taylor	12
     Report of
        Guthrie, John j	13
        Taylor, Alfred	11
  Mentioned	1113,24
Nightingale, U. S..storeship. Mentioned	273
Nile, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	247,563
Nimble, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	244
Nixon, James. Mentioned	340
Nonsuch, British schooner. Capture of, Dec. 1,1862. Reports of Albert. G.
	Clary	567, 568
North Carolina. Defenses of coast of. Communication from George W.
	Blunt	59
North, James H.
   Correspondence with Raphael Semmes	639, 771
  Mentioned	660, 663, 664, 675, 739,746, 763
North, James H., Mrs. Mentioned	771
Northern Belle, American schooner. Mentioned	276
Northern Light, American steamer. Mentioned	44,48,55,74
O.K., Sloop. Capture of, Feb., 1862. Report of Daniel B. Ridgely	356
OBrien, Matthew. Mentioned	614, 684
OBrien, Michael. Mentioned	349
Ocean Rover, American bark. Mentioned	780, 788
Ocmulgee, American ship. Mentioned	480, 780, 787, 788
Octorara, U. 5.5. Mentioned	338,
470,472, 477,490, 499, 504, 511, 516,523,535,536,539,545, 555, 558,560, 568
Oldelin, British steamer. Mentioned	227
Olden, Charles S. For correspondence, etc., see New .Jer8ey, Governor. of.
Oliver H. Booth, Schooner. Mentioned	345
Oliver, Mr. Mentioned	120
Oliver, Mr. Mentioned	735
Olivia, Schooner. Mentioned	568
Olivier, Mr. Mentioned	708
Oltmanns, 3. G. Correspondenceowith Gustavus H. Scott	113
Oneida, U. S. S. Mentioned	338,
431,432,434, 436438, 440, 442, 446448, 453, 454, 457, 458, 460~467
ONeil, James. Mentioned	45
Onward, U. S. S. Mentioned	523,526,580
Ord, H. at. George. Mentioned	261,516,569
For correspondence, etc., see Bermuda, Governor of.
Ordnance Department, C. S. Correspondence with George H. Giddings	234
Oreto, Steamer. See Florida, C. S. S.
Orozembo. Case of the ship. Mentioned	19

Page 868

	868	INDEX.
	Page.
Qrr, John. Mentioned .	032,698
Q4olan. Mentioned	-	253
Osborn, Abraham. Mentioned		787
Osborne, Captain. Mentioned		308
Osceola, American steamer. Mentioned		389
Onachita, Steamer. Mentioned		511,516
Overman, Danish bark. Mentioned		789
Pacific, Steamer. Mentioned		191,277,278,413,427,561,676
Pacific coast. English and French naval forces on. Report of Charles H.
	Bell	391
Pacific Squadron. Operations and movements of vese~lp of.
Communications from
     Bell, Charles H	291, 297,304, 383, 384, 471, 594
     Montgomery, John B	54-.58, 76,77,220,239
     Murray, Francis K	86
  Reports of
     Bell, Charles H	279,291,292,298,303, 357,383,391, 4Q1
     Montgomery, John B	46,53,71,86,38
Pae~, Jos6 Antonio. Mentioned	362
Paget, C. Correspondence with British Admiralty....	. 172
Palermo, U. S. conpul at.
  Correspondence with Josiah P. Creesy		372
  Mentioned		364,371,372
Palmer, . Mentioned	.. .~	30
Palmer, James S.
Correspondence with
	Anandale,H.A	216
	Bell, Charles H	21
	Breese, Samuel L	41
	Cnra9ao, Governor of	.~       205
	Martinique, Governor of	210
	Navy Department, U. S	.. 82,83,216, 240
	Wilkes, Charles	119
Mentioned.... 20, 40,43,96, 119,205,219,224,242,251,252,271,273,280,642,645,739
Reports of
	Privateers, Confederate. Search for	49
	Sumter, C. S. S. Escape of, from Martinique, Nov. 23, 1861	213,215,216
	Sumter, C. S. S. Search for	90, 122, 208,212,229
Palmerston, Lord. Mentioned	156, 168, 741
Panama. Affairs at. Report of Charles H. Boll	401
Panama, American brig. Mentioned	818
Paramaribo, IT. S. consul at.
   Correspondence with commanding officers U. S. Navy	97,117, 118
   Mentioned	96, 98, 123,491,704, 705
Parke, Captain. Mentioned	385
Parker, Mr. Mentioned	109
Parker Cook, American bark. Mentione4l	780,808,810
Parker, George W. Mentioned	.. .         231
Parker, James.
   Mentioned	,...... 424,426, 4~7
   Report of loss of U.S. S. Adirondack, Aug. 23,1862	424
Parker, 8amuel E. Mentioned	818
Parker, William. Report of escape of C. S. S. Florida into Mobire Bay, Sept.
4,1862                                        

Page 869

	INDEX.	869

Parrott, Enoch G.	Page.
	Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S		30
	Mentioned		28
   Report of capture of Confederate privateer Savannah, June 3,1861	29
Partnage, Mr. Mentioned	216
Passaic, U. S. S. Mentioned	548
Patey, Charles G. B.
Correspondence with
	Craven, T. Auguatas	279,294,295,300
	Pegram, Robert B	749, 750
	Williams, Richard	158
	Mentioned	277,286,293,295,299,300,750,751
Patterson, Alexander, et al. Correspondenee with Gustavus H. Scot~	113
Patrullo, Ramon 3. y. For correspondence, etc., see Merida, Mexico, U. S.
C0n8U1 cit.

Paulding, Hiram.
Correspondence with
	Birnie, E. A	336
	McKinstry, James P	336
	Navy Department, U. S	145,
	219,249,336338,341, 343345, 346,527,529,582,544
	Nicholson, J. W. A	530
	Paulding, Leonard	529
	Redden, Henry	527
	Mentioned	16,251,428,538,589,545548
	Report of Nashville, C. S. S. Movements of	124
Paulding, Leonard. Correspondence with Hiram Paulding		529
Paul Jones, U. 8.8. Mentioned		474
Peacock &#38; Co. Mentioned		738
Pearl, Confederate schooner. Mentioned		747
Pearson, George F.
   Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	15~	43,44
Pegram, James W. Mentioned		752
Pegram, Robert B.
   Correspondence with
     Hedges, Philip .. 	~	751
     Isaac, S		751
     Patey, Charles G.E                                   749,		750
     Somerset, Duke of		750
	Mentioned	. .~. 149, 150, 156, 500,506,752, 753
   Report of cruise of C. S. S. Nashville, Oct. 26,1861, to Feb. 28, 1862		745
Pelot, Thomas P. Mentioned		33
Pembroke, Steamer. Mentioned .~	. .. . .~. 39,41,48,45,99,100
Pender, 3. Mentioned	... . . 		747
Pendergrast, Garrett 3.
   Correspondence with Navy Department, U.S			529
   Mentioned			22,73
Pendleton, P. Mentioned	  		659
Pendleton, William D. Mentioned			606
Penguin, U. 5.5. Mentioned			73,421
Penny, Thomas F. Mentioned			661
Pepita, Schooner. Mentioned			602
Perkins, William. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S			240
Perry, Mr. Mentioned . . . . 			11

Page 870

	870	INDEX.
	Page.
Perry, U. S. brig. Mentioned	2830,78
Perry, Horatio 3. Mentioned		358
           For correspondence, etc., see Madrid, U. S. mini8ter at.
Perry, William. Mentioned		818
Persano, Admiral. Mentioned		47
Perseverant, French bark. Mentioned	285
Petrel, C. S. privateer.
   Capture of, July 28, 1861. Abstract log of U. S. S. St. Lawrence	51
   Mentioned	112,818
Petrel, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	416,764
Pettengill, A. C.
  Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	121
  Mentioned	818
Phmton, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	368,369
Phillimore, Robert. Mentioned	798801
Phillips, James D. Mentioned	85
Phcebe, British steamer. Mentioned	484
Phcebe Ann, Steamer. Mentioned	400
Pickering, Charles W.
   Correspondence with
      Bryson, Andrew	541
      Craven, T. Augustus. - - 	381,396,507
      Creesy, Josiah P	364
      Gibraltar, Governor of	360, 361, 366
      Gibraltar, U.S. consul at	397,576
	Lisbon, U. S. minister at	490
	Madrid, U. S. minister at	360
	Navy Department, U. S.. - 	284,331,405, 522,.524, 584
	Warden, Frederick	366
Mentioned     110,317,366,371,381,382,392,399,481,523, 537, 546, 562,563,580
Reports of
	Alabama, C. S. S. Movements of	490,540
	Confederate cruisers. Search for	-	521
	Florida, C. S. S. Search for		363
	Gibraltar. Affairs at	358,365
	Sumter,C.S.S. Abandonment of	378
	Sumter, C. 8.8. Guarding of	393,396,586
	Sumter, C. S. S. Sale of	576
      Sumter, C. S. S. Search for	320
Pierson, John S. Mentioned	794
Pinola, U. S. S. Mentioned	436
Pintard, Samuel. Mentioned	501
Pinto, Captain. Mentioned	708
Pioneer, C. S. privateer. Mentioned	818
Platt, Charles, et al. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	59
Plover, British ship. Mentioned	718
Plover, H. B. M. S. Mentioned		516
Poinsett, Joel R. Mentioned		171
Poor, Charles H.
   Mentioned		630
   Report of escape of C. S. S. Sumter from Mississippi River, June 30,	1861...	34
Poor Orphan, French brigantine. Mentioned	...	718
Port Royal, U 8.5. Mentioned		47

Page 871

INDEX.
	871
Porter, David D.	Page.
Correspondence with
	Cura~ao, Governor of	79,80,81,82
	Maranham, Governor of	92
	  Navy Department, U. S	65, 71,83
	Mentioned	25,72, 83, 96, 118, 124,642
	Reports of
	  Abby Bradford, American schooner. Recapture of	65
	Sumter, C. S. S. Search for	68, 78,91, 103, 104
Portsmouth, U. S. sloop. Mentioned	63,368
Post-Office Department, U. S. Correspondence with George Mackenzie....	228
Postell, William H. Mentioned	38,39,42
Powell, Master. Mentioned	818
Powell, Levin M. Report of affairs in Mexico	307,354, 355, 368, 379,380, 390
Powell, William L. Mentioned	767
Power, Thomas B. Mentioned	818
Powhatan, U. S. S. Mentioned	72,83,90,91,96,
97, 105,118, 119, 122124, 130,615,616, 618, 629, 641, 692, 693, 717, 727, 735
Pozuela, Don 3os~ de la. For correspondence, etc., see Cienfuego8, Governor of.
Preble, U. 5. 5. Mentioned	39,41,62,720
Preble, George H.
Correspondence with
	Brower, Alfred ~	452
	   Farragut, David G	433,434,440,450
	  Fitch, B. H	452
	  Lincoln, Abraham	441
	   Mcllvaine, William D . - - -	452
	  McMnrtrie, Horace	452
	  Morrison, James H	452
	  Navy Departmen,#, U. S	434 445
	  Thornton, James S	457
	Dismissed from U. S. Navy	434
Mentioned	431,435,453456,458,459,462,463,464, 466,467, 766
	Renominated as a commander in U. S. Navy	459
Report of escape of C. S. S. Florida into Mobile Bay Sept. 4, 1562.... 432,433,436
President, C. S. Mentioned	153, 155,215, 613, 653, 659, 781, 782, 820
President, U. S. Mentioned	9,25, 99, 100, 167, 169, 176, 178,
188, 192, 232, 434, 436, 440442, 446,456, 598600, 640, 641
For correspondence see Lincoln, Abraham.
Pressley, B. C. Libelants proctor in case of brig Betsey Ames	820
Price, Cicero. Report of search for Confederate cruisers	nSl
Price, Sterling. Mentioned	515
Price, Thomas. Mentioned	306
Prim, Juan. Mentioned	354,355,396
Prince Albert. Mentioned	764,765,770
Prince Alfred, British schooner. Mentioned	570
Prince of Wales, British schooner. Mentioned	99,249
Priscilla, American schooner. Mentioned	50
Priscilla C. Ferguson, Schooner. See Beauregard, C. S. S.
Private armed vessels. Communications from
   Latlirop, F. S	37
   Lathrop, F. S., et at	31
Privateers, Confederate.
   Fitting out of.
      Communications from
        Bell, Charles H	59

Page 872

	872	INDEX.
Privateers, ConfederateContinued	Page.
Fitting out ofContinued.
	Communications fromContinued.
	     Ward, C.,jr		275
	     Wenzell, Henry		26
	   Reports of
	     Bell, Charles H		292
	     Bissell, Simon B		379
	     Breese, Samuel L		17
	     Schenok, James F		68
	List of		818
	Operations and movements of.
	  Communications from
	     American marine insurance companies		59
	Barney, hiram	38
	Coggeshall, T. &#38; J	37
	Forbes, J. M	38
	  Report of William Ronekendorif		603
Search for.
	Communications from
	Bell, Charles H	304,894,
	Breese, Samuel L	40,41
	Dahlgren, John A	43
	Fifield, Captain	42
	Forbes, J. M	39
	Hudson, William L	38,40,42,49
	Navy Department, U. S	18,476
	Pearson, George F	43
	St. Thomas, U. S. consul at	589
	Wilkes, Charles	514
	Orders of Navy Department, U. S	15, 16, 17, 19,39,41,43, 100,468,472
Reports of
	Creesy, Josiah P	231
	De Camp, John	362
	Glynn, James	219
	Handy, Robert	49
	Moore, Henry T	238,259
	Palmer, James S	49
	Rogers, William C	128,206,296, 380
	Scott, Gustavus H	55,56
  Treatment of. Communications from Elisha D. Smith	36
Prometheus, H. M. S. Mentioned	24
Protector, American schooner. Capture of, July 28, 1861.
   Communication from Joseph B. Hull	52
   Mentioned	52,818
Pruyn, Robert H. Mentioned	301
Puerto Cabello, Governor of.
   Correspondence with Raphael Semmes	623
   Mentioned	632,698,699
Pulaski, U. S. S. Mentioned	32,33,475
Purviance, Hugh Y. Mentioned	51,819
Quaker City, U. S. S. Mentioned	242,243,262,267,272,280, 293,307,309
Queen of the West, British brig. Mentioned	244
Queen Victoria, British brig. Mentioned	285
Quinn, Charles W. Mentioned	764,769
R. N. Correspondence with London Times	56

Page 873

	INDEX.	873
	Pa~&#38; 
R. H. Cuyler, U. S. S. Mentioned	398,400, 415,416,421, 764
Rachel Seaman, U. S. S. Mentioned	431,
	435, 437,441,444,446448,451,453,460,461,466
Rahming, Mr. Mentioned	487
Raasloff, Colonel. Mentioned	264
Rainey, Lieutenant. Mentioned	768
Rains Castle, British bark. Mentioned	259
Randolph, George W. Mentioned	402
           For correspondence, etc., see War Department, C. S.
Ransom, Mr. Mentioned	749
Rattlesnake, C. S. privateer. Mentioned	818
Read, Mr. Mentioned	360
Read, Charles W. Mentioned	768
Read, 3. Laurens. Mentioned	764, 765,769
Rechberg, Count. Correspondence with M. de Hulsemann	170
Redden, Henry. Correspondence with Hiram Paulding	527
Redmond, Michael. Mentioned	13
Reiley, Edward. Mentioned	534
                       See Royley, Edward.
Release, U. S. storeship. Mentioned	509,520,537, 586
Relief, U. S. storeship. Mentioned	63,64
Retribution, C. S. privateer. Mentioned	589,603,604,818
Revolution, American bark. Mentioned	564
Rhode Island, U. 5.5. Mentioned	62,203,457
Rice, Mr. Mentioned	216
Rice, William T. Mentioned	381
Richards, A. C. Correspondence with Navy Department, U.S	576
Richibucto, British bark. Mentioned	732
Richmond, U. 5.5. Mentioned	35,73,641,735
Ridgely, Daniel~.
   Correspondence with
     Du Pont, Samuel F	256
      Havana, U. S. consul-general at	233, 258,283,302
	Nayy Department, U. S	127, 206,233,270, 301, 387, 388, 389
	Wilkes, Charles	526
	Mentioned	208,222,235,236,258,266,283,284,532
Reports of
	Agents, C. S. Seizure of, Dec. 7, 1861	232
	Blockade runners. Search for	218, 220, 282,361
	0. K., Sloop. Capture of, Feb., 1862	356
Right of search. Instructions of Navy Department, U. S	417
Rinaldo, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	157,192,194-196
Ringgold, Cadwalader.
   Correspondence with
     Cape Verde Islands, U. S. consul at	608
     Comatock, J. J	342
      Glisson, Oliver S	597,606,607
     Goldsborough, Louis M	341
     Navy Department, U. S	522,524
   Mentioned	343,346,351
   Report of search for U. S. ship Yermont, March 1April 12, 1862	346
Rising Dawn, British schooner. Mentioned	582
Ritchie, Robert.
   Correspondence with John B. Montgomery	7

Page 874

	874	INDEX.
Ritchie, RobertContinued	Page.
  Mentioned	15,53, 77, 292,297,298
   Reports of California steamers. Protection of	25,35
Rivet, British schooner. Mentioned	582
Roanoke, U. S. S. Mentioned	547,548
Robert Gilfihlan, American brig. Mentioned	747
Roberts, Stephen.
   Statement of	536
   Mentioned	501
Robertson, Captain. Mentioned	480
Robinson, Andrew J. Mentioned	86
Robinson, Tracy. Mentioned	66
Robinson, William. Mentioned	614, 684
Rodgers, George W.
   Correspondence with Charles Wilkes         . -	522
   Mentioned	499, 511, 512
   Reports of blockade runners. Search for	t45, 539
Rodrigues, Sefior. Mentioned	709
Roediger, Albert de. Mentioned	534
Rogers, Thomas S.
   Correspondence with George Burgess	233
   Mentioned	233,236,238
   Seizure of. See Agents, C. S. Seizare of, Dec. 7, 1861.
Rogers, William. Mentioned	653
Rogers, William C.
	Correspondence with Navy Deparl~ment U 5	100
	Mentioned	~	290, 303, 307, 819,821
Reports of
	Beauregard, C. S. privateer. Capture of, Nov. 12, 1861	206,211
	Blockade runners. Search for	305
	Privateers, Confederate. Search for	.... 128,206,260,296, 300, 365, 380
Rogers, William M. Mentioned	653
Romaine, W. G. For correspondence, etc., see Admiralty, British.
Ronokendorif, William.
   Correspondence with
      Barbados,U.S. consul at	590
      Chandler, Ralph	583
      Keene, Henry T	590
      Lee, Samuel P	510,517,520
      Martinique, Governor of	550
      Martinique, U. S. consul at	~551
      Navy Department, U. S	528,544
   Mentioned	554, 589
   Reports of
      Alabama, C. S. S. Escape of, from Martinique, Nov. 19, 1862	549
	Alabama, C. 5. 5. Search for	559,574,582,589, 602
	Privateers, Confederate. Movements of	603
Rosahind, British bark. Mentioned	581,582
Ross, Elijah. Report of escape of C. S. S. Florida into Mobile Bay, Sept. 4, 1862	450
Ross, Thomas. Mentioned	52
Rost, P. A. Correspondence with
   Foreign Office, British	153
   Semmes, Raphael	680
   State Department, C. S	15

Page 875

INDEX.
875
	?age~
Rotlisay, British brigantine. Mentioned	717
Rousseau, Lawrence. Mentioned	624
Rowena, American bark. Mentioned	818
Royley, Edward. Statement of. - - 	534
Ruhl, Eugene. Correspondence with Raphael Semmes	624
Russell, Earl. Mentioned	158, 163
172, 177-179, 187, 299, 305, 325, 331, 356, 357, 361,430, 662, 664, 667, 676, 678
For correspondence, etc., see Foreign Office, British.
Russell &#38; Co. Mentioned	387
S. 3. Waring, American schooner. Mentioned	42, 818
Sabine, U. S. frigate. Mentioned	343348, 351, 522, 526
Saginaw, U. S. S. Mentioned	219, 374, 387, 394
St. Louis, U. S. sloop. Mentioned	288, 293, 381, 383, 517,520,526,581, 679
St. Louis, American steamer. Mentioned	298
St. Marys, U. S. sloop. Mentioned	25,
35, 53,56,57, 71, 77, 86, 303, 304, 357, 383, 585, 811
St. Thomas, U. S. consul at.
Correspondence with
	Cnra~ao, U. ~. cQnsul at	47
	Navy Department, U. S	118,589
	Mentioned	.~	56, 205, 289,603,604
Saliqu6, M. de. Mentioned	354
Sallie, C. S. privateer. Mentioned	121, 389,818,820
Salmon, Everett. Mentioned	661
Salvor, Steamer.
   Capture of, Oct. 13, 1861.
Communications from
	Havana, U. S. consul at.. - 	112
	Patterson, A., et al	113
	   Report of Gustavus H. Scott	109
	Mentioned	111113
Samoset, Brigantine. Mentioned	347, 348
Sands, Joshua R.
   Correspondence with Macomb, William H	32
  Reports of Brazil Squadron. Movements of vessels of	27, 30, 70
Sanford, H. S. Correspondence with John B. Marchand	225
San Francisco, Steamer. Mentioned	346, 347
San Jacinto,	U. S. S. Mentioned     64, 118, 122, 134136, 138142, 145, 147, 148, 153,
155, 156, 158, 159, 162166, 170173, 175, 178, 179, 184, 188, 196, 340,508, 510,
517,518,521,525,531,549,551, 553, 574, 583, 589, 641, 723, 727, 735, 779,806
San Roman, Joseph. Mentioned	238
Sans Pareil, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	308, 368
Santa Clara, American brig. Mentioned	818
Santee, U. S. frigate. Mentioned	232
Santiago de Cuba, U. S. S. Mentioned	127, 208,
218,222,232,235,236,238, 245,256,258, 266,267,270,282
284, 387, 389, 421, 470472,505, 507,513,532, 557, 558,561
Saranac, U. S. S. Mentioned	53, 54, 71,	76, 77, 292, 297, 298, 357
Saratoga, U. S. S. Mentioned		24, 63, 64,272,292
Saitori, Lewis C.
   Correspondence with Charles H, Bell	 	.... 580
   Mentioned		110,595, 603, 779, 811
	Reports of capture of American steamer Ariel, Dec. 7,1862	577,57

Page 876

	876	INDEX.
Satterthwalte, T. B. Correspondence with	rage.
  Lincoln, Abraham	221
  Navy Department, U. S	292
Saunders, John. Mentioned	781
Savage, Thomas. Mentioned	62
       For correspondence, etc., see Havana, U. S. con8ul-general at.
Savannah, C. S. privateer.
  Capture of, June 3, 1861.
     Congratulatory letter from Navy Department, U. S	30
     Abstract log of U.S. brig Perry	29
     Reports of
        Parrott, Enoch G	29
        Stringliam, Silas H	28
	Mentioned	2830, 633, 818
Savannah, U. S. S. Mentioned	52, 84, 539, 546548
Sawyer, Francis. Mentioned	748, 752
Sawyer, Henry. Mentioned	704
For correspondence, etc., see Paramaribo, U. S. consul at.
Saxon, American steamer. Mentioned	337,340, 342345, 347,351
Saxony, American bark. Mentioned	726
Schenok, 3. Findlay.
   Correspondence with Charles Wilkes	507
   Reports of
      Commerce. Protection of	218
      Privateers, Confederate. Fitting out of	69
Scotia, British steamer. Mentioned	400,413, 491,501
Scott, Gustavus H.
   Correspondence with
      Curtis, Cornelius	113
      Navy Department, U. S	48
      Oltmanns, J. G	113
      Patterson, A	113
   Mentioned	83,89, 90, 118
   Reports of
      Salvor, blockade runner. Capture of, Oct. 13, 1861	109
      Sumter, C. S. S. Search for	55,56, 69, 72, 73,96
Scott, 3. K. Mentioned	818
Scott, William, Sir. Mentioned	143, 181, 197, 199, 200, 738
Scott, W. W. Mentioned	764
Sealine, C. S. privateer. Mentioned	818
Sea Witch, American schooner. Menfioned	68
Seeley, John. Mentioned	749, 764,766
Seligman, William, &#38; Co. et al. Correspondence with Treasury Depart
	ment,U.S	8
Seminole, U. S. S. Mentioned	27, 28, 30,84,693
Semmes, Raphael.
	Assignment to command	613
	Assumes command of C. S. S. Sumter	614
Correspondence with
	Armstrong, Richard F	684
	Cadiz, Captain of Port of	638
	Cadiz, Governor of	638, 640, 643,644,652,653,657,658
	Cadiz, U. S. consul at	638
	Chapman, R. T	666,669
	Chief Pilot, mouth of Mississippi River	61

Page 877

	INDEX.	877
~emmes, RaphaelContinued.	Page.
Correspondence witliContinued.
	Cienfuegos, Governor of	619
	Cnra~ao, Governor of	621,697
	Dias, Don Mariano	620
	Drummond-Hay, John H	671,672
	Duchaxel, M. E. F	650,651
	Evans, William E	627
	Fearn, Walker	644
	Forts Jackson and St. Philip, Commanding Officer at	692
	Fraser, Trenhoim &#38; Co	662
	Freeman M J	666,669
	Fry, Joseph	617
	Gefken, J. W	627
	Gibraltar, Governor of	660,668, 682
	Hicks, William A	625
	Hudgins, Albert G	621
	Kell, John M	666, 669
	Mason, James M	659, 662, 663, 670,673,674, 676,678, 681, 684, 740
	Martinique, Governor of	647,648,649
	Moise, E. Warren	625, 626
	Navy I)epartment, C. S	613,614,615,671
	North, James H	639,771
	Rost, P. A	680
	Rnhl, Eu gene	624
	Slidell, John	674,677
	Surinam, Governor of	626,627
	Tangier, Governor of	669
	Times, London	640
	Warden, Frederick	654, 667
	Woolfien F S	693
	Yancey, William L	639,644
Mentioned	47, 65,83,96, 97, 105, 107, 108,223, 327,373,398,
399,404, 408,416,490,491,509,520, 527, 537, 578, 582, 583,587,
595, 614,676, 679, 680, 688690, 760, 770,773778, 780,781,782
Reports of.
Alabama, C. 5.5. Operations and movements of	778
See also Alabama, C. S. S. Journal of, dug. 20, 1862, to Jan. 4, 1863.
Sumter, C.S.S.
	Abandonment of	683, 685
	Armament and condition of	615
	Escape of, from Mississippi River, June 30,1861	616618
	Operations and movements of	622, 628, 644, 654, 685
See also Snmter, C. S. S. Journal of, YIay 24, 1861, to April 11, 1862.
Semmes, Thomas J. Mentioned	674
Serrano, Francisco. Mentioned	760
Seward, Frederick W. Mentioned	195,788
For correspondence, etc., see State Department, U. S.
Seward, William H. Mentioned	145, 160, 161, 165, 168171, 174, 176, 177, 188
	192, 194,196, 198202, 386, 534,535, 720, 788
For correspondence, etc., see State Departni.ent, U. S.
Seyes, John. Mentioned	12
Seymour, -Captain. Correspondence with Sir Lewis T. Jones	405
Seymour, Mr. Mentioned	174
Shannon, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	299,747
Sharkey, Seaman. Mentioned	76

Page 878

	878	INDEX.
	Page.
Shasgehard, Turkish steamer. Mentioned	537
Shaw &#38; Finlay. Mentioned	798
Shelby, John. Correspondence with T. Augustus Craven	418
Shepherd Knapp, U. S. S. Mentioned	126, 127,223,224,230, 247, 307309, 346
Shirk, James W. Mentioned	468
Shirley, Paul. Mentioned	86
Shufeldt, Robert W. Mentioned	130,
203,218,220,249,256,258,270, 301, 302,420,421,492,507, 766.
For correspondence, etc., see Havana, U. S. con8%tl-general at.
Siam, Ship. Mentioned	720
Sibley, Henry H. Mentioned	383
Sicard, Montgomery.
  Mentioned	445
  Report of escape of C. S. S. Florida into Mobile Bay, Sept. 4, 1862	442
Sidney Price, American schooner. Meationed	567
Silphide, Bark. Mentioned	17
Simms, Charles C. Mentioned	768
Simpson, Robert G.
Correspondence with Charles Wilkes	133
Mentioned	134
Report of capture of Confederate Commissioners, Nov. 8, 1861	138
Sinclair, George T. Mentioned	685, 686, 689, 771, 775
Sinclair, George T., jr. Mentioned	760,763, 766, 767, 770
Sinclair, William B. Mentioned	752
Skinner, T. L. Correspondence with Archibald Wilson	61
Slaneiro, Spanish brig. Mentioned	259
Slaughter, James E. Mentioned	768
Slavers. See Clarissa and Ealmouth, 8 layers. Ca8e of. Also Nightingale, 81a-
ver, and Triton, slaver.
Slidell, Miss. Mentioned	163
Slidell, Mrs. Mentioned	163, 678
Slidell, John.
Capture of Nov. 8, 1861. See Cornmi88ioners, Confederate. Capture of, Nov.
8, 1861.
Correspondence with
	Semmes, Raphael	674, 677
	Wilkes, Charles	139, 141, 142, 146
Mentioned	113115, 124, 125, 129-143, 148152, 155178, 180,
187, 192196,198,202, 262, 281, 628, 642,676, 690,692, 723, 727,735745, 747
Slidell, John, et al. Statement of capture of Confederate Commissioners,
          Nov. 8, 1861	139
Smith, Captain. Mentioned	42
Smith, Captain. Mentioned	747
Smith, Captain. Mentioned	766
Smith, Master. Mentioned	818
Smith, Charles H. Correspondence with Samuel L. Breese	51
Smith, Elisha D. Correspondence with Navy Department, U.S	36
Smith, Frederick F.
  Mentioned	233,235
   Statement relative to seizure of Confederate agents	237
Smith, James. Mentioned	590
Smith, John. (Seaman.) Mentioned	633
Smith, John T. Correspondence with Navy Department, U.S	526, 528
Smith, J. T. Mentioned	37

Page 879

	INDEX.	879
Smith, W. Breedlove. Mentioned	614, 654, 704
Smith, William. Mentioned	752
Somerset, Duke of.
  Correspondence with
     Mason, James M	157
	Pegram, Robert B	750
	Mentioned	157
Sonoma, U. S. S. Mentioned	470, 472, 483, 484, 489,
494500,502504,512,515, 516,556,558,560, 568, 572,587
Soper, Master. Mentioned	818
Sophia, Steamer. Mentioned	400
Sousa, Sefior. Mentioned	108
Southampton, U. S. consul at. Mentioned	293
South Carolina, U. S. S. Mentioned	61,62
Southwick, Steamer. Mentioned	400
Sparrow, Thomas. Mentioned	51
Spartan, British brig. Mentioned	637, 713
Spear, Alden T. Mentioned	263
Spicer, William E. Mentioned	337, 351
Spideil, John. Mewtioned	749, 752, 769
Spiteful, H. B. M, S. Mentioned	487
Spitfire, H. B. M. 8. Mentioned	460
Spofford, Tileston &#38; Co.
  Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	85
  Mentioned	124
Spotts, James H.
Correspondence with
     DuPont, Samuel F	420
     Gansevoort, Guert	422
   - Havana, U. S. consul-general at	421
     Lardner, James L	421
  Mentioned	419,420,423
Sprague, Horatio J. Mentioned	317,
358, 363, 366, 371, 373, 381, 382, 386, 394,540,541,661
For correspondence, etc., see Gibraltar, U. S. conszd at.
Sprague, Thomas. Mentioned	86
Stanley, British steamer. Mentioned	400,413,491
Stanly, Eabius.
  Correspondence with Charles H. Bell	384,471,584
  Mentioned	383
Stannard, Joseph B. Mentioned	430
Staples, Master. Mentioned	818
Star of the East, ~c1iooner. Mentioned	427
Starlight,. &#38; uiericap.~chooner. Mentioned	480, 780, 788, 789
State Department, C. S. Correspondence with
	Brown, Joseph E		688
	Gentry, M. ~		687
	Helm, Charles ~		760
	Mann, A. Dudley	~	154
	Mason, James M		148, 150, 151, 679,688, 690,752
	Myers, M		687
	Rost,P.A		154
	Yancey, William L		154
	Zacharie, J. W		23

Page 880

	880	INDEX.
State Department, U. S. Correspondence with	Page.
	Backus, Simeon	67
	Cura~ao, U. S. consul at	89
	Grinnell, M. H	468
	Halifax, Nova Scotia, U. S. consul at	202
	Navy Department, U. S	88,99,264,265
	Washington, British minister at	171, 172, 177, 187, 195, 196
State of Georgia, U. S. S. Mentioned	332335,508
Steady, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	244,249,281
Steece, Tecuznseh. Mentioned	595
Steedman, Charles. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	124
Steele, Master. Mentioned			216
Steliwagen, Henry S. Mentioned			59,301
Stephenson, Sergeant. Mentioned			688
Stettin, British steamer. Mentioned			388
Stevens, Edwin A. Mentioned			19
Stevens, Thomas H.
   Correspondence with
     Bermuda, Governor of			502
      Wilkes, Charles		488,499,555,593
   Mentioned		494,497,503,516,556
   Report of Blockade runners. Search br			511
Stevenson, John A. Mentioned			818
Stewart, Houston, Sir. Correspondence with T. Augustus Craven	429,430
Stillman, Charles. Mentioned			238
Stillman, Cornelius. Mentioned			238
Stockton, Robert F. Mentioned	. .~		19
Stone, Consul. Mentioned			557
Stone, Mr. Mentioned			767
Stone, David M. Correspondence with	Navy Department, U. S  		98
Stone, S. G. Mentioned	...  	 	768
Stowell, Lord. Mentioned		  198,569
Stribling, John M. Mentioned        408,613,614,686,693,760, 764767, 769,			770
Stringham, Silas H.
   Correspondence with
     Goldsborough, John B			60
     Hull, Joseph B                                        
   Mentioned			18,30
  Report of capture of Confederate~privateer Savannah, June 3, 1861	28
Stuart, R. H. Mentioned	42
Styx, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	744
Sumner, Edwin V.
   Correspondence with Edward W. Carpender	74
  Mentioned	5355,57,75,76
Sumpter, U. S. S. Mentioned	63
Sumter, C. S. S.
Abandonment of.
Communications from
	   Gibraltar, U. S. consul at	373
	   London, C. S. Commissioner at	679
	   Pickering, Charles W	381
	   Semnies, Raphael	~. 668, 664,674,681
	Reports of
	   Craven, T. Augustus	373
	   Creesy, Josiah P	as

Page 881

	INDEX.	881
	Sumter, C. S. S.Continued   	Pge.
	Abandonmet ofContinued.
	Reports ofContinued.
	Pickering, Charles W	378
	      Semmes, Raphael	683,685
	      Thatcher, Henry K	381
	Armament and condition of. Report of Raphael Semmes	615
	Captures by, 186162	744
	Disposition of officers of. Communication from James D. Bullock	770
Escape of, from Martinique, Nov. 23, 1861.
	Abstract log of U. S. S. Iroquois	. . . -	214
	Reports of
	   Anandale, H. A		216
	Palmer, James S	213,215
See also Sumter, C. S. S. Jeurnal of, May 84, 1861, to April 11, 1868.
Also Report of Raphael Semmes, p. 644.
Escape of, from Mississippi River, June 30, 1861.
	   Abstract log of U. S. S. Brooklyn	34
	   Reports of
	      Poor, Charles H	34
	      Semmes, Raphael	622,628
	 See also Sumter, C. S. S. Journal of, May 84, 1861, to April 11, 1868.
	Guarding of.
	   Communications from
	      Craven, T. Augustus... 	396
	      Gibraltar, U. S. consul at	397
	      Pickering, Charles W	397
	   Orders of Navy Department U S	405,479
	   Reports of
	      Bryson, Andrew	523,601
	Pickering, Charles W	- 393, 396,586
	Thatcher, Henry K	385
	Upton, Daniel P	489
	Journal of, May 24,1861, to April 11, 1862	691744
	List of officers of	614
	Mentioned	34,41,44,47,48, 55,56,62,63,
65,66,6870,72,73, 7883,87, 89, 9096, 98,99, 103109, 117120, 122, 123,
130, 168, 191,204, 205,208210,213217,219,222224,239,240,242,243,247,
251, 252, 260, 267, 271274, 277, 284, 286, 288, 290,291,299, 300,305307, 309
314, 317, 318, 320,322, 324, 327329, 331, 332, 352, 358,359, 361,365, 366, 367,
370,371,373,378,381,382,386, 389, 394,396399, 401,479,489,491,508, 509,
521,523,524,537, 563, 576,581,583,586589,593, 601, 613, 614, p16, 637639,
641643, 645, 652654, 659, 660, 663, 664, 667, 670, 676, 678, 679, 681,682, 684
691, 693, 704, 710, 722,740,742, 744, 762, 764, 770, 771,776,778, 786, 794, 814
Murder on board of.
Communications from
	Gibraltar, U. S. consul at	508,509
	London, C. S. Commissioner at	688,690
Operations and movements of.
Communications from
Corning,E.L                                        
	Cura~ao, U. S. consul at	47,89
	Frailey, James M	290
	Havana, U. S. consul-general at	62,98

123A5

Page 882

882
INDEL
Sumter, C. 8.5.Continued	Page.
Operations and movements ofContinued.
Communications fromContinued.
	     Navy Department, U. S	83
	     Paramaribo, U. S. consul at	97, 117,118
	      State Department, U. S	88
	      Semmes, Raphael	640
	   Reports of
	      Glynn, James	- 62
	      Semmes, Raphael	- 622,628,644,654
	Sale of.
	  Communications from
	      Bulloch, James D	689,690
	      Mason, James M	688,690
	     Navy Department, C. S	691
	  Reports of
	      Bryson, Andrew... - 	588,593
	      Pickering, Charles W	576
	Search for.
	  Commnnications from
	      Creesy, Josiah P	322
	McKinstry, James P	251
	Mahan, Alfred T	87
	Navy Department U 5	288, 2~
	Instructions of Navy Department, U. S	82
	Orders of Navy Department, U. S	48,240,242,284,290,291
Reports of
	Brasher, ThomasM	.. 66
	Bytinge, Henry S	222,308
	Frailey, James M	270, 289,306
	Glynn, James	224
	Palmer, James S	90, 122,203,208,212,213215,229
	Porter, David D	68,78, 91, 103, 104
	Rogers, William C	260,300
	      Scott, Gustavus H	69,72,73,96
	      Wilkes, Charles	119
	Supplies for. Communications from
Navy Department C S
      Semmes, Raphael	639,644,659, 6~i2
Supply, U. S. S. Mentioned	688
Surinam, Governor of. Correspondence with Raphael Semmes	626, 627
Surinam, U. S. consul at. Mentioned	634
Susanne, French bark. Mentioned	803
Susquehanna, U. S. S. Mentioned	7,20,27,436,437,453455
Swartwout, Samuel. Mentioned	273,368
Swasey, Captain. Mentioned	99
Sweeting, Anthony. Mentioned	556
Sylph, Steamer. Mentioned	400
Symmetry, British bark. Mentioned	563
T. B. Wales, American ship. Mentioned	551,780,803,807
Tangier, Governor of. Correspondence with Raphael Semnies	669
Tangier, U. S. consul at.
   Correspondence with T. Augustus Craven	310,311
Meutioned. ...310, 312,313-315,317,358360,664,668671,673,674,676,678,687, ?4

Page 883

	INDEX.	883
	Page.
Tartar, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	280
Tatham, Edward. Mentioned	368
Taylor, Alfred.
   Correspondence with
     Gutlirie, John Julius	12
     U. S. district court of New York, judge of	11
   Mentioned	64, 143
   Report of capture of slaver Nightingale, April 21, 1861	11
Taylor, John Y. Report of escape of C. S. S. Florida into Mobile Bay, Sept.
	4, 1862	446
Taylor, Moses. Mentioned	265
Taylor, Richard. Mentioned	748, 752
Temple, William G.
   Correspondence with
     Nassau, Governor of	253,254
     Navy Department, U. S	207,211,217,271
   Mentioned	246, 256,259,270
   Reports of
      Blockade runners.
         Movements of	245,248,255,260,266,268,284
         Search for .. . 	243,273,280,281
     Neutrality regulations, Bri ~ish	252
Tennessee, Steamer. Mentioned	302
Termagant, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	391,401
Terrible, British frigate. Mentioned	5
Terror, H. B. M. bark. Mentioned	247,251
Tessier, IL L. Mentioned	783
Thatcher, Henry K.
   Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	332,390
   Mentioned	382,383
   Reports of
      Commerce. Protection of	370
      Sumter, C. S. S.
        Abandonment of	381
         Guarding of	385
Thaxter, Mr. Mentioned	26
Theodoraj Steamer. Mentioned	124, 130, 149152,245,248,249,259,260,285
Thistle, British steamer.
Boarding of. See Cornubia and Th.i8tle. Boarding of, Nov., 1862.
  Mentioned	564566
Thomas, Charles.
   Report of protection of California steamers	3
   Correspondence with Navy Department	3
Thomas, Francis M. Mentioned	752
Thomas, William B. Correspondence with Treasury Department, U. S	45
Thomas &#38; Co. Mentioned	364
Thompson, Marine. Mentioned	684
Thompson, Mr. Mentioned	582
Thompson, A. 3. Correspondence with William G. Temple	254
Thompson, Otis A. Mentioned	568
Thomsen, John. Mentioned	375,377
Thomson, Edward R. Mentioned	27,28,30

*Formerly C. S. privateer Gordon

Page 884

	884	INDEX.
	Thornton, James S.	Page.
	   Correspondence with George H. Preble	457
	   Mentioned	439,460,464,466,576
	   Testimony before court of enquiry	460
	Thouvenel, Edouard A.
	   Correspondence with M. Mercier	164
	   Mentioned	165, 166, 169, 177, 676,677
	Thrupp, Captain. Mentioned	496
	Times, London.
	   Correspondence with
	     R. N	566
	      Semmes, Raphael	640
	Tinklepaugh, E. L.
	   Correspondence with Edward W. Carpender	75,76
	   Mentioned	74
	Tioga, U. S. S. Mentioned	470,
472,483,484, 494500,502, 503, 511, 512, 526,557, 55&#38; , 560,569
Tobey, Edward S., et al. For correspondence, etc., see Board of Trade,
Boston.
	Todd, Henry D. Mentioned	484
	Toifree, James B. Mentioned	605
	Tonawanda, American ship.
	   Capture of, Oct. 9, 1862. See Alabama, C. S. S. Journal of, Aug. 20, 1862,
	          to Jan. 4, 1863.
	   Disposition of, as prize	780
	Mentioned	527,780, 794, 795
	Tonta, American steamer. Mentioned	341
	Topaze, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	391
	Totten, Joseph G. Mentioned	75,109,476
Toucey, Isaac. For correspondence, etc., see Navy Department, U. S.
	Train, George F. Mentioned	225
	Train, Samuel F. Mentioned	314, 315
	Transit, American schooner. Mentioned	68
	Treasury Department, U. S. Correspondence with
	  Barney, Hiram	38
	  Seligman, William, &#38; Co. et al	8
	   Thomas, William B	45
	   Young, James H	228
	Trenchard, Stephen D. Mentioned	62,73
	Trenhoim, George A. Mentioned	149,150
	Trent, British steamer. Mentioned	130,
131, 133142, 153156, 158160, 162170, 172174, 176181, 184,
185, 187194, 196, 198,200,201, 391, 590, 670, 672,678, 727, 732
Trent affair. See Commissione,-s, Confederate. Capture of, Nov. 8, 1861.
	Trinidad, Governor. of. Mentioned	633,699, 700
	Triton, Slaver. Capture of, May 21, 1861. Report of John S. Nicholas	24
	Trowbridge, Edward. Mentioned	105
	           For correspondence, etc., see Barbados, U. S. consul at.
	Tubal Cain, British steamer. Mentioned	400,413
	Tucker, N.E.
	   Correspondence with Josiah P. Creesy	372
	   Mentioned	371,372
	Tunstall, Thomas T.
	   Mentioned	310,
	311,317, 358360, 382,386, 392, 665, 668,669,671, 673, 674, 676678,742, 743
Seizure of. See Myers and Tunstall, Mes8rs. Seizure of, Feb. 19, 1862

Page 885

	INDEX.	885
	Page.
Turenne, French steamer. Mentioned	368
Turner, Levi W. Mentioned	314
Tuscarora, U. S. S. Mentioned	191,249,278, 287, 300, 305,
312314, 318, 327, 329331,357, 358,361, 365367,370, 381, 385,394, 396,397,
405, 418,419,429, 430,481,489, 490, 507, 509, 517, 5~, 521, 526, 531, 537, 541,
546,562,565, 666, 676, 680, 681, 685, 686, 741743,746,747, 749754, 775, 777
Tyler, Henry B., jr. Mentioned	11, 12
U.	S. district court of New York, Judge of. Correspondence with Alfred
   Taylor	11
UIloa, Spanish steamer. Mentioned	396
Una, Danish brig. Mentioned	716
Unenca, Eugene. Mentioned - - 	52
Union. American schooner.
   Capture of, Dec. 5,1862. See Alabama, C. S. S. Journal of, Aug. 20,1862
          to Jan. 4, 1863.
   Disposition of, as prize	781
   Mentioned	780, 781,810
Union, American ship. Mentioned	- 263,346
Union, U. 5. 5. Mentioned	.. 19,52,59
Upton, Daniel P.
   Correspondence with
      Craven, T. Augustus	489
      Fayal, U. S. consul at	480
   Mentioned	537,586
   Reports of
      Azores Islands. C. S. S. Alabama in vicinity of	480,481
      Sumter, C. S. S. Guarding of	489
Urana, American brig. Mentioned	500,511,515,558
V. H. Ivy, C. S. privateer. Mentioned	818
Vanderbilt, Blockade runner. Mentioned	302
Vanderbilt, U. S. S. Mentioned	302, 479, 505,526,533,538, 544,575,576,604,799
Vanderbilt, Cornelius.
  Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	8, 604,605,609
  Mentioned	23, 604,782
Van Dorn, Earl. Mentioned	54,55,57,515
Van Lansberge, R. F. For correspondence, etc., see Surinam, Governor of.
Van Zandt, Nicholas H. Mentioned	54
Van Zandt, William V. R. Mentioned	512
Vattel, Emmerich de. Mentioned	143, 180,197, 199,409
Venus, American bark. Mentioned	$9
Venus, Dutch bark. Mentioned	296
Vermont, U. S. ship. Mentioned	- 336338,340351
Search for, March 1April 12, 1862.
Communications from
	   Blake, Homer C	341
	   Goldsborough, Louis M	341
	  Hudson, William L - - - 	336, 337, 340,344
	   Paulding, Hiram	336, 337, 338, 341, 343346
	   Riuggold, Cadwalader	342
Reports of
	Baldwin, Augustus S.	- 335, 336, 338, 342, 349
	Comstock, Joseph J 	343,345
	McKinstry, James P 	340
	Riuggold, Cadwalader	346
	Vesterling, A. Mentioned    	765,77

Page 886

	886	INn~x,
	Page.
Victor Emanuel, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	5,6
Victor Emanuel, Sardinian frigate. Mentioned	4,6,7
Victoria, British scliooner. Mentioned	232
Victoria, British steamer. Mentioned	492
Victory, H~.B. M. 8. Mentioned	287
Vigilant, H. B. M. 8. Mentioned	287
Vigilant, American ship. Mentioned	646, 727, 744
Vigo, y Mendez de. Mentioned	640
             For correspondence, etc., see Gadiz, Governor of.
Villaverde, Du Santos. Mentioned	63
Ville de Malaga, French steamer. Mentioned	310
Vincennes, U. 8.8. Mentioned	38,40,42,49,301
Virginia, American bark. Mentioned	780,790
Virginia, Confederate steamer. Case of. Communications from Charles
Wilkes	602, 604
Virginia, U. S. S. Mentioned	344
Virginia Price, American schooner. Mentioned	36
Vixen, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	460
Vogel, L. Mentioned	764, 770
Vulture, French steamer. Mentioned	634, 704
W.	E. Alexander, Confederate schooner. Case of. Report of Josiah P.
  Creesy	371
W. G. Hewes, Steamer. Mentioned	492
Wachusett, U. S. S. Mentioned	470,
	472,490,493, 495497,502504,523,526,540,542,557,560,571,572,582
Waddy, Thomas E. Mentioned	781
Wainwright, Jonathan M. Mentioned	223,459
Walker, John T. Mentioned	768
Wallace, Johnson. Mentioned	96
Wallen, Henry D. Mentioned	74,75
Wanderer, Yacht. Mentioned	18
War Department, C. S. Correspondence with
   Lilly, A	821
   Maffitt, John N	758
War Department, U.S. Correspondence with Ellen McCarthy	241
Ward, Mr. Mentioned	379
Ward, C., jr.
   Correspondence with H. B. Forbes	275
   Mentioned	275,292,297
Ward, William J. Mentioned	744
Warden, Frederick.
   Correspondence with
      Craven, T. Augustus	327
      Pickering, Charles W	366
      Semmes, Raphael	654, 667
	Mentioned	323,329,366,662, 739, 741, 742
Warren Winslow, * C. S. privateer. Mentioned	51,59,67
Warrior, H. B. M. S. Mentioned	328,329, 741
Washington, British minister at. Correspondence with
	Crawford, Joseph T	171
	Foreign Office, British	159162, 165, 167170, 174, 176, 177, 188192, 194196
	Hewett, W	193,195
	State Department, U. S	171, 172,177,187, 195, 196

* Same ae Winslow, C. S. privateer

Page 887

	INDEX.	887
			Pare.
Washington, George. Mentioned		354,641
Washita, British steamer. Mentioned			484
Waterman, F. H. Mentioned			384
Watkins, Captain. Mentioned			58
Watkins, James T. Report on assuming command of Saginaw			387
Watmough, Pendleton G.
  Mentioned		115, 117
  Report of search for C. 5. 5. Nashville			117
Watson, Ship. Mentioned			230
Watson, Benjamin F. Mentioned			356
Watson, George W. Mentioned			764
Watson,. James M.
  Correspondence with John B. Montgomery			239
  Mentioned			220
Watson, William F. Mentioned			237
Wave Crest, American bark. Mentioned		780,793
Weather Gauge, American schooner. Mentioned	...	780,789
Webb, Steamer. Mentioned			302
Webb, James Watson. Mentioned			581
Webb, Mrs. Mentioned			581
Webster, C. W. Mentioned			17
Weed, W. F., &#38; Co. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S			10
Weidman, John. Mentioned			576
Welch, R. W. Correspondence with F. S. Lathrop			203
Welch, William. Mentioned			340
Welsh, Richard. Mentioned			534
Welles, Gideon. Mentioned	640, 641, 642, 643, 735
For correspondence, etc., see Navy Department, U. S.
Wells, Fargo &#38; Co. Mentioned	783
Wenzell, Henry. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	26,27
West India Squadron. Operations and movements of. See Wilke8, Charle8.
West Wind, American bark. Mentioned	619,620, 622, 630, 695, 744
Wetson,J. Mentioned	635,710
Weymouth, British schooner. Mentioned	718
Wheaton, Henry. Mentioned	143, 153, 197, 198,409
Whipple, George A. Mentioned	682, 744
Whiting, Samuel. Mentioned	398, 399,406,407,416
For correspondence, etc., see Nas8au, U. S. consul at.
Whittle, William C. Mentioned	748, 752
Wiley, J. H. Mentioned	534
Wilites, Charles.
Assignment to command
	U. S. S. San Jacinto	64
	West India Squadron	470
Correspondence with
	Bailey, Theodorus	595
	Bermuda, Governor of	493,494,495,496
	Bermuda, U.S. consul at	494,515
	Clary, Albert G	545
	Collins, Napoleon	499
	Dahlgren, Charles B	133
	Eustis, George	141,142, 146
	Fairfax, Donald McN	133
	Grace, H.P	13

Page 888

888
JKI~EX.
Wilkes, CharlesContinued.	Page.
Correspondence withContinued.
	Greer, James A	133
	Hall, George W	133
	Houston, G. P	604
	Houston, James B	133
	Hudson, William L	147
	Inman, William	64
	Macfarlaud, James B	141, 142, 146
	MeKinstry, James P	514
	Mason, James M	141, 142, 146
	Merida, Mexico, U. S. consul at	- - - -. 602
	Nassau, U. S. consul at	490,501, 555,562,570,581,588
	Navy Department, U. S	145, 146, 148, 470,
472, 476, 477, 479, 491, 493, 499,502,510, 525, 532, 558, 566,569, 583,587,606
	Palmer, James S 	119
	Ridgely, Daniel B	526
	Rodgers, George W	522
	Schenek, J. Findlay	507
	Simpson R G	133
	Slidell, John	141, 142, 146
	Stevens, Thomas H	499,555,593
	  Wyman, Robert H		477
	Mentioned		64, 118,
122, 135, 141, 142,145147, 167172, 173, 176, 178, 179181, 184, 185, 189,
190, 193, 196, 201,486,487,492, 515,517, 556, 559561, 569,582,599602
Reports of
	Bermuda. Affairs at	483,493, 502
	Commissioners, Confederate. Capture of, Nov. 5, 1861	129,
		142, 143, 145, 147
	Neutrality regulations, British	500, 571
	Sumter, C. S. S. Search for	. 119
	West India Squadron. Operations and movements of	483,
493, 499, 502, 505,513, 532, 542, 557, 558, 571, 586, 606
Wilcox, 3. A. Correspondence with T. Augustus Craven	278
William G. Anderson, U. S. bark. Mentioned	100,
127, 128, 206,223,261,289, 303, 3OS~ 307, 365, 380, 821
William H. Webb,* C. S. privateer. Mentioned	818
William McGilvery, American brig.
  Capture of, July 25, 1861. Communication from Hiram Carlisle	50
  Mentioned	50,68,818
Williams, F. W. Mentioned	534
Williams, Henry. Mentioned	337,590
Williams, JamesM. Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	525
Williams; John. Mentioned	96
Williams, John. (Seaman.)
   Statement of	534
	Mentioned		534,535
WflH~ms, Richard.
Correspondence with
	Admiralty, British	163
	Patey, Charles G. E	158
	Mlentioned	141, 158, 159, 163, 173,177180

* Afterwards C. S. S. Webb

Page 889

	INDEX.	889

P~ge~
Wilson, Captain. Mentioned .	112
Wilson, Captain. (R. N.) Mentioned	487
Wilson, Master. Mentioned	492
Wilson, Archibald. Correspondenc~&#38; with T. L. Skinner	61
Wilson, John. Mentioned	818
Wilson, Joseph D. Mentioned	613, 614, 684
Windward, American schooner. Mentioned	216
Winona, U. S. S	431
433, 435, 436, 438, 439, 444, 446, 448, 450, 451, 453, 457, 460~463, 466, 467
Winslow, C. S. privateer. Mentioned	51,59,67
Winslow, Francis.
   Correspondence with Navy Department, U. S	397
  Mentioned	400
  Report of movements of steamer Oreto [C. S. S. Florida]	415
Winslow, J. A. Mentioned	576
Wiswell, Captain. Mentioned	513
Wood, George W. Report of escape of C. S. S. Florida into Mobile Bay,
          Sept. 4, 1862	453
Woodbury, Captain. Mentioned - . - -	303
Woodhull, Maxwell.
Correspondence with
	Breese, Samuel L	116
	Goldsborough, Louis M	431
	Mentioned	356
	Reports of
	  Cimarron, U. S. S. Condition of	468, 473
	  Nashville, C. S. S. Search for	120
Wool, John E. Mentioned	84
Woolfien, F. S. Correspondence with Raphael Semmes	693
Woolsey, Theodore D. Mentioned	153
Worden, John L. Mentioned	819
Worrell, C. Mentioned	764
Wright, Mr. Mentioned	96
Wright, George. Mentioned	383
Wyke, Charles, Sir. Mentioned	162
Wyman, acting marine officer C. S. S. Florida. Mentioned	764-766
Wyman, Henry. Mentioned	568
Wyman, Robert H.
  Correspondence with Charles Wilkes	477
  Mentioned	484,497,498,504
Wyoming, U. S. S. Mentioned	25,
35,36,46,53,58, 71,86,220,221, 240,280, 292,301,303, 304,357,391,392,394
Yancey, William L.
Correspondence with
	Foreign Office, British	152
	Semmes, Raphael	639,644
Mentioned	639,644, 647,656,659,660,735, 739, 740, 746, 747
Yancey, William L., et al. Report of capture of C. S. Commissioners,
	Nov.8, 1861	154
Yonge, Clarence R. Correspondence with James D. Bulloch	773
* Same as Warren Winslow, C. S. S

Page 890

	890	nn~x.
York, C. S. privateer	Page.
Capture of schooner George G. Baker. Report of William A. Abbott... - 61
Destruction of, August 9, 1861.
	   Abstract log of U. S. S. Union	. 61
	   Report of Goldsborough, John R	60
	Mentioned	5961,818
Young, 3ames H. Correspondence with Treasury Department, U. S	228
Young, 3. H. Mentioned	781
Zacharie, 3. W.
  Correspondence witli State Department, C. S	235
	Mentioned	220,232,233, 235,237,238
Seizure of. See Agents, C. S. Seiztsre of, Dec. 7, 1861.


Page 890A

CIVIL WARS NAVAL HISTORY.
1~Tlnth Volume of Official Records of
Union and Confederate Vessels
a Comprehensive Work.

	The ninth volume of the Official Records of
the Union and Confederate Navies, Just is-
sued under the editorship. of Professor ~. K.
Rawson and Mr. charles W. Stewart, is an
important contribution to the history of these
series. It relates in chronological order, the
operations of the North Atlantic bloc din
squadron from May, 1863, to May; 18 an
makes public for the first time many im-
portant reports of general engagements, ac-
tions and special or single events. The re-
ports of the Union commandersare ver full
and complete, but owing to the fact t~a.t a
large part of the Confederate archives was
burned at the close of the war, this side of
the question is less full than might be de-
sired.
	The Navy Department is doing excellent
work in the publication of these volumes,
and as all the material employed is certified
to by t~ie contem~oraneou5 records of the
war, its authority is beyond question. The
scheme of publication includes three series,
The first series will contain the reports, or-
ders and corresp)ndence, both Union and
Confederate, relating to naval operations on
~the Atlantic and Gulf coasts and inland
waters of the United States, together with
the operations of vessels acting singly, either
as cruisers or privateers. In this series the
papers will be arranged chronologically, ac-
oording to squadrons and flotillas, and as far
as possible the Union reports of any events
will be immediately followed by those of the
Confederates.
	The second series will embrace the reports,
orders and correspondence relating to :First,
the condition of the Union navy in 1861 before
the commencement of hostilities, and to its
increase during the~ progress of the war;
second, the construction and outfit of the
Confederate navy, including privateer~
third, statistical data of. all vessels Union
and Confederate, as far as can be oitained;
fourth, returns of naval and military prop-
erty captured by the navies of both sides
during the war, and fifth, correspondence re-
lating to naval prisoners.
	The third series gathers together all re-
ports orders, correspondence and returns of
the 1~Jnion and Confederate authorities not
specially relating to the matter of the first
and second series. It is the intention of the
department to furnish illustrations of each
vlass or type of vessels referred to, in order
to preserve the identity of these ships as they
appeared during the ~war. Copies can be ob-
tained only by application to members of
Congress

Page 890B

