1i~eport of Commander Cooper, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Con
necticut, of receipt of orders, and sailing of his ship.

U. S. S. CONNECTICUT,
Hampton Roads, January 1, 1863.
	SIR:	I respectfully acknowledge the receipt of your orders of the
30th of December, 1802, in obedience of which I report the sailing of
this ship.
Very respectfully, youtr obedient servant,
G.	II. COOPER,
Commanding U. S. S. Connecticut.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secrctary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 2, 1863.
	The Connecticut sailed from Hampton Roads yesterday morning for
the point agreed upon. The Augusta also left Key West for Aspinwall
the day after the Arid left that port.
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary 01 the Navy.~
C.	VANDERBILT,
New York.


Report of Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. ins-
carora, ~f the chase by that vessel of thc steamers Calypso, Flora, and
R&#38; by, bound from iViadeira to Nassau, N~w Providence.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP TUSCARORA,
A lgeciras, January 1, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to forward to you the following descriptions
of three English steamers which recently left Madeira for Nassau and
will probably try to run the blockade:
	Ruby.Iron, paddle-wheel steamer, fore-and-aft schooner rig; no
bowsprit; has two smoke pipes, one standing forward of wheelhouses,
the other in line with after part of paddles; has a house forward of
mainmast; also one abaft foremast; has a light hurricane deck
between paddle boxes, steam drums on deck; draft, 7 feet; is of about
300 tens; very long and low, and of great speed.
3



Page 4

4	OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERS-UNION.

	Flora.Tron, screw steamer, 200 tons, fore-and-aft schooner rig;
house on deck abaft mainmast, also one between foremast and smoke
pipe; has short bowsprit, bridge across deck a
ing wheel aft	bait smoke pipe; steer
feet.	, two boats on port side, one starboard side; draft, 9
Galypso.Tron, screw steamer, of about 600 tons; three masts, fore-
mast ~quare-rigged, poop-deck cabins, topgallant forecastle, deep-
waisted, bowsprit and short jib boom, wheel on poop forward of
mizzeiiinast; smoke pipe forward of mainmast, and very near it; has
bridge across the deck forward of smoke pipe; guard-strake plank
above the water hue; draft, 11 feet.
	All three of these vessels were at Madeira together, and were to move
off together, in different directions, to baffle me. The Ruby slipped at
sun set, 19th December. 1 waited for the others; they remained quiet
until midnight, when the Calypso slipped. 1 immediately did the same
and chased. When out of jurisdiction of the island, failing to bring
him to with blank cartridge, I fired twice at him with 11-inch shells,
his distance being about one-half mile, when, in a squall, he changed
his course, and was lost to us. The next day, about 100 miles S. W. of
Madeira, we discovered a steamer some 25 miles south. I chased,
and by evening discovered it was the Flora, and at dark was within
5 miles, but a rainy night favored his escape.
	I was particularly anxious to catch the Calypso, believing she carried
arms and powder, and is well adapted for a privateer.
	Flora is a new vessel and her supercargo was mate of the Memphis
when captured.
I have The honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
	T. AuGS. CRAVEN,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander.
&#38; cretary of the Navy.



Letter of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India ASVnadron, calijug attention to ine~1icieney of his squadron, and
reporting capture of steamer Virginia.

FLAG-STEAMER WACIIUSETT,
Havana, January 2, 1863.
	SIR: I have to acknowledge the receipt of sundry communications,
enclosing extracts printed and written, relative to vessels engaged and
preparing-in different ports to be engaged in contraband trade, which
will be of advantage. I beg leave to inform the Department that I am
in possession of much valuable infoimation in relation to illicit traders.
I am constantly receiving it from various reliable sources, which tallies
with that sent me, and upon which I have acted prouiptly. Such, how-
ever, is the condition of the vessels at my disposal that it is impossible
to elket a tithe of what I would like to do. I have again to call the
attention of the Department to the inefficiency of the squadron under
my command. I have only five vessels, and an area of thousands of
miles to guard.
	I take the liberty to ask the Department whether the vessels iiow
cruising in these waters, the San Jacinto, Vanderbilt, and others, can
not be under my command to insuwe unison and concert of action,






Page 5

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	5

Unless the number of vessels subject to my orders are increased, I
shall find it difficult in many respects to carry out the wishes of the
Department. I am fully aware that several C~nfederate vessels, or
vessels engaged in contraband trade, as you state, have ran the block-
ade. This was to be expected with the small force I have. I therefore
hope the honorable Secretary of the Navy will at once give me an ample
force, and I will insure successful results. The moment I was made
aware of the presence of the 290 in these waters I sailed in pursuit of
her. Had my means beemi adequate, by a sufficient number of vessels,
the capture of the rebel Seinmes would have been made ere this.
	The results of my last cruise have been the capture of the valuable
Confederate iron steamer Virginia, formerly the Noe-Daquy, which will
be detailed to you in another dispatch, giving an account of the cruise.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,

Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, I). C.



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, relative to cruise in search of the Alabama, and cap-
ture of steamer Virginia.

U.	S. FLA~-STEA1~IER WACHUSETT,
January 2, 18G3, at The Havannah.
	DEAR SIR: In my last note I informed you of my intended departure
with this steamer, the Wachusett, and Sonoma in search of the Ala-
bama. I had some knowledge of the intentions of Semines while in the
Sumter and concluded lie would resort to the same places to recruit in
the Alabama. One was the Grand Cayman Island, and for it we sailed
with all speed. After passing Cape [San] Antonio we encountered for
three days a very heavy norther, one of the most violent that had been
experienced throughout the Caribbean Sea for some years. This ship
went to sea repairing her starboard boiler; detached the screw; was
under sail for twelve hours. We rounded Cape [San] Antonio with a
fur wind from the north, which was the beginning of the gale above
referred to. Our boiler tubes again burst out, and during the gale it
required sixteen hours to fix. We encountered a very heavy sea. The
Sonoma, in company, rolled away her smokestack, but fortunately it
fell inboard and was saved. The Wacliusett had her headrail washed
away and was strained considerably, so that a great many seams are
nearly destitute of oakum, and the decks leak very much.
	On the fourth day we reached the Grand Cayman and found the
Agrippina bark had left only three days before. This is the vessel
which supplied the Alabama with 200 tons of coal at Martinique. She
had been waiting for the Alabama nine days and left very suddenly
and at night in consequence of a signal having been made in the offing,
supposed to have been by the Alabama. This was the evening of the
commencement of the gale in which we suffered. At Grand Cayman I
received notice of the captnre of the Arid through our vice-consul from
Jamaica, which gave the Alabama time to reach the Grand Cayman on
the evening the Agrippina sailed. It was ascertained also that Semmes
had determined to intercept the homeward-bound California steame

Page 6

6	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

which passes by the route round Cape [San] Antonio, and it was almost
certain that there was a great probability of his being off there at the
time of the next one being due, and thither J deteThuined to follow and
look after him. In the meantime I judged he may have gone for a few
days to Cienfuegos, the only port on the south side where the Confed-
erate agents on this island can be communicated with.
	After twenty-four hours hard work the smokestack of the Sonorna
and the burst tubes of the boiler of the Waohusett were in condition
to go to sea, when we left to call in at Cienfuegos. This we reached
in thirty-six hours. No news was obtained. The Wachusett took in
75 tons of coal and left on Christmas morning for the locality of
Cape [San] Antonio, coasting the reefs of the south shore to the
westward of Cienfuegos. We reached the cape oii the 26th, and
remained 27th, 28th, and part of the 29th. Nothing was seen, and, as
it was probable the steamer was detained I determiiied to visit the
island of Cozumel and the harbor of Muger~s, near the north point of
Yucatan, believing that the Agrippina may have made that as a place
of resort for discharging the remainder of her cargo then on board.
I was led to this from the fact of the impossibility of her being able to
reach a port to windward during the bad weather, and therefore the
necessity of reaching a secure harbor. Off Cozumel we gave chase to
a schooner, which took refuge in the harbor of Mugeres, and which led
us to discover a steamer at anchor under the land, to all appearance
the Alabama. All hands were greatly excited, and a contest expected,
but she turned out to be the steamer Virginia, an iron-built [steamer],
that had arrived a few days before to refit, receiving her necessary out-
fit, as well as a portion of cargo, by the schooner Pepita from The ilavan-
nah, and on examination she proved to be under the Confederate flag,
which was found on board and had been hoisted. The captain made a
clean breast of it, and gave a certificate that she was wholly Confed-
erate. The Mexicans, however, said she was a Spanish slaver from a
suspicion that she had been engaged in landing a cargo of slaves, and
they put a guard of soldiers on board, who, with the crew, were in a
great state of disorder, and fears were entertained that a fight would
ensue and the Confederate crew overpowered by an armed mob of
Mexicans who were on board and had possession to the number of
sixty or seventy. I determined to get rid of them and hold the vessel
as a Confederate prize in case there was no proof of her having been a
slaver or was then engaged in the slave trade. This I did, and put
Lieutenant Houston, with a guard of 18 marines, on board to preserve
order and hold her until advices could be received from Merida, which
would require some eight or ten days. The schooner Pepita was also
held possession of with the supplies for the Virginia.
	The agreement I entered into was to await the result of the enquiry
from Merida and to avoid doing anything offensive or that might be so
considered as interfering with the authorities, such ev en as they were,
and I succeeded in my objects to my entire satisfaction. The steamer
is a valuable one, and will be a prize to the Waehu8ett and Sonorna.
We shall return to cruise off the cape as soon as we fill up with coal,
our fuel being exhausted on our arrival here, and our boilers leaking so
badly it was at one time doubtful if we should be able to reach our port.
The Sonoma was obliged to anchor off one of the keys of this island to
cut wood for steaming. Fortunately we discovered her and supplied
her with what we could spare.
	I am much pleased with the exertions and energy of Commander Stev-
ens and his officers for their perseverance in overcoming many difficulties
and mishaps which have occurred during this short and arduous cruise

Page 7

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	7


As well I deem it my duty to bring to your favorable notice the execu-
tive officer of the Wachusett, Mr. Fleming, and the chief first assistant
engineer. I have favorable accounts from the Qther portions of the
squadron from Commander Ilidgely, of the Santiago de Cuba, who has
visited all the weather islands of the Bahamas, as directed in my orders
and instructions to him, and is now on the usual track of the blockade
runners between Charleston and Nassau, near the Bahamas. We shall
leave this in a day or two, and if no further developments take place
relative to the 290 will carry out my views as above indicated.
	Very truly and respectfully,	CHARLES WILKES,

Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding.
11011. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy.

	P.	S.Jf the time of the arrival of the California steamers off the
different capes and passages could be furnished me,it would enable me to
have a vessel or vessels there to secure them safe escort and to encounter
the rebel pirates. It, of course, would be considered strictly confidential,
and I judge would be a great security for the owners and shippers by
them.
	Respectfully,	C. WILKES.


Letter from Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, calling attention to inefficiency of his squadron from
lack of sufficient number of vessels.

FLAG-STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Havana, January 2, 1863.
	SIR:	In reply to your letter of the 1st of December: I have not
entered any British port, except Bermuda, nor do 1 intend to enter or
permit any of the vessels of the squadron to ask permission to enter, or
subject myself and those under my command to the discourtesies those
who have entered heretofore have received. Any occurrence will be
promptly communicated, as it has been, to the Department.
	We shall not cease to be vigilant in our endeavors to capture vessels
engaged in carrying supplies and munitions of war to the insurgents,
which are running between Nassau and Charleston. Some may escape
us, but the best proof you can have of our vigilance is that their trade
has been interrupted and put an end to since our arrival within the
Bahama waters, of which the authorities and inhabitants make great
complaint and lavish much abuse upon ifle, as you have no doubt seen.
How the Department can expect that all vessels can be captured or
I)revellted from running the blockade I can not conceive, when it knows
that I have repeatedly informed it that I have too few vessels to guard
every outlet of this most extensive group in the West Indies, sur-
rounded by banks and reefs of the most dangerous kind to navigation.
Had I been supplied with the force I suggested and failed to carry out
the instructions given me I should deem myself in a manner at fault.
The ~ve vessels I have under my command have been very actively
engaged, though inefficient in very many respects for this service. I
have deemed it necessary for the present (as more imperative) for the
Wachusett and Sonoma to hunt up the rebel steamer Alabama and
others. Of their late cruise in search of her my note to you of this
date will give you abundant particulars

Page 8

8	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I! take again the liberty to call the attention of the I)epartment that
I have not the number of vessels to compass the field of operations
(lesiglied for me and to protect our commerce and~nsure its safety from
tlie depredations of the rebels.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,

Acting rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, P. 0.



Letter from Acting rear-Admiral Wilkes. U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, relative to his proceedings at Bermuda and reasons
for same.
FLAG-STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Havana, January 2, 1863.
	SIR: I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 2d Decem-
ber in reference to my proceedings at l3ermu(la, and the comments of
the British minister, Lord Lyons, thereon.
	In reply to the first point, I most l)Ositively deny that either of the
vessels ever anchored so as to control the movements of ships desiring to
enter or depart from the port of Bermuda. We but maintained a sys-
tem of cruising outside of the neutral waters of Bermuda, in and nnder
our rights a~ a belligerent, and perfectly consistent with that defiuied
by Lord StowelL, which Lord Lyons quotes, in the case of the Anna,
	On the second point of offensively and unlawfully l)lacing sentinels
on British territory: The Sonoma and Tioga went alongside of the wharf
to coal, and their usual gangway sentinels were l)laced so as to prevent
any intoxicating liquors from being conveyed on board to our men,
having no reference to British territory whatever, unless United States
ships became so in fastening to a l)rivate wharf of an itidividual of
Bermuda. This is customary in all naval services; it was not done
ofihuisively nor unlawfully. No objection was made to it whatever, as
I am informed by the commanders, and it was not unlawful to guard
our own men without any reference to the inhabitants or authorities of
Bermuda. I most emphatically deny that sentinels were Placed on
British territory.
	His third ground is that I contemptuously evaded the orders of her
Majesty in regard to the snl)plies of coal, which vessels of belligerent
l)arties obtain in a British port. Of this he fails to give an instance,
and I most positively assert that every decorum was used by me in
all my ~omnmunications and conduct to his Excellency the governor
and time other authorities of the island, as my correspondence with him
abundantly proves.
	He refers again to a quotation in which the word instruct~ occurs.
1 took exceptions to it, from its well-understood meaning, to instruct
mae, amid that I would not permuit him to use so obnoxious a word in a
dispatch to me, as my Government had alone that power. There
was no defiance in it, nor any intemition of breaking the rules in any
way of her Majesty, or of obstructing the performance of the governors
duties, nor can the sentence be construed to imply that I meant to
attempt it, without a most extraordinary torturing of language to suit
certain ends. Under the discourtesies of Governor Ord, 1 deemed i

Page 9

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	9

but proper and right to give huin the rebuke I did. I have always
endeavored to cultivate a friendly feeling with all government officers.
While maintaining our own rights I shall ever ~espeet the rights of
others, and never permit my forbearance to be exhausted, though my
patience may be severely tried, and iiever permit myself to transgress
the recognized laws and regulations of the governments or interna-
tional law.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WiLKES,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Nary, Washington, I). C.



Letter from ilcting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Nary, commanding
West India Sqiladron, to Comnmartder Ilidgely, U. S. Nary, command-
ing U. S. S. Santiago de Cnba, eoncerntng arrival of C. S. S. Ala-
bama in the West Indies.

FLAG-STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Havana, Jan2tary 3, 18G3.
	Sm:	Your letter of the 15th instant [uitiiuo] has been received on my
arrival here. 1 regret itwas cot a more bill stat( iiuit of your ol)erations
on your cruise to the Wind ward Bahama Jsland~ You have no doubt
heard of th~ acts of time Alabama in the Wiimdward l)a~a~s. 1 thiimk it
would be advisable, if you can be spa~e(i from voni st ililon, to run off
there with the Tioga about the time time luau ste~uner makes that point.
She leaves New York on the I st, 111th, an(1 flst of e n h month, and proba-
bly takes five days to reach there. It may be po~ul)k is the Alabama
is in search of one of them, she will be fallen iii ~ ith if so, you will
have an op~)ortunity of capturing her, winch is devoutly to be wished.
1 have notlilno Thither to add to my iiistinctiouu of tim 1st of Decem-
her. Your coaling will of course take l)la(e at Tm tie Harbor, where
you can communicate with me more readily.
	Time arrival of the A labama in these waters has necessarily directed
my attention to a sulz~ject of immore nuportance thami employing the ves-
sels in the blockade of Nassau an(1 the Bahamas. However, it is left
discretionary with you to forego for a time the instructions given you
if you can aid iii thwarting the depredations of the Alabama, and you
xviii consider yoinself at liberty to I)rocee(l on very well-founded reports
of her whereabouts to seek her, and tAb m wuds return to your main
object iii guarding the channels, as hcretofoxe lea(hng into Nassau and
the islands of the Bahanmas. I enclose vu i further list of the vessels
that have fitted or are fitting out in Enohnd to run the blockade.
I ama, very res~)eet1niiy, your ol)edltIlt ~trvant,
ChARLES NYILKES,

	Acting Rear Admiral, Commanding West In ia Sqnadron.
Commander B. B. lILOGELY, U. S ~ ivy,
Commanding Steamer Santiago de C nba~ West India Squadron.
	P.	5.When necessary you will pionxc provisions at Turtle Harbor
or Key West. A supply vessel will probably touch at the former
place. Failing to procure provisions at either ol the above places you
will get them at Havana.
	Yours,	C. W

Page 10

10	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Commander Ridgely, U. S. Navy, commandinq U. S. AS~. Santi-
ago de Cuba, relative to cruise in search of C. S. S. Alabama and cap-
ture of brig ~Jomet.

U.	S. S. SANTIAGO BE CUBA
Ifey I Vest, January 5, 1863.
	SIR: T received to-day, through Commander Stevens ,your com-
munications from Havana of the 3d instant. My letter of the 15th
ultiino in relation to the cruise with the Tioga among the Windward
Bahamas would have been more in detail had I sup posed it could have
reached you through that channel before my falling in with you. On
the 26th ultimo I left at Stirrup Cay another communication, which
has l)robably failed to reach you.
	I left the anchorage off Great Stirrup Cay, in company with the
Tioga, on the 6th of December, to visit the Windward anchorages.
On the 8th we passed through the passage between Eleuthera and Cat
islands into Exuma Sound, and anchored the same day off Fernandez
Cay. On the 9th and 10th we passed close along San Salvador and
Conception islands and Rum Cay, and on the evening of the 10th
anchored at the N. E. end of Long Island, off Dove Cay. Exuma
Sound is full of secluded and safe anchorages, such as a piratical ves-
sel would seek. More convenient places for their purposes could not
be found.
	Im ade diligent enquiries and took every means of procuring infor-
mation at every stopping place, but without hearing of the Alabama or
seeing any vessel of suspicious character.
	By the 12th it was well into the dark of the moon. I had examined
every point which appeared to W~mand it and the Tiogas supply of
coal was getting low. It seemed to me important that we should make
the best of our way to the offshore blockade, and on the 12th we
anchored off the south end of Eleuthera, on the return to Stirrup Cay.
We arrived there on the 14th, and the Tioga having taken her supply
of coal from the brig New Bra, I left there in company with her for the
cruising ground to the northward of Abaco, hoping to intercept vessels
bound from Nassau to Charleston.
	We left together on the 16th ultimo, but in consequence of very
severe weather the Tioga was compelled to part company on the second
night out. I continued on my way alone, fearing to lose the dark
nights, and desiring to carry out your directions in relation to the
offshore blockade as speedily as possible. I cruised over the ground
which the vessels would have to take in daylight, but saw no steamer
except the mail packet British Queen. The weather was heavy during
most of the time, and the blowpipes of our engine became so seriously
disabled that I was compelled to come to Key West for repairs.
	On the 25th of December, while returning to Stirrup [Cay] I boarded
the brig Comet, under the British flag, and bound ostensibly from
I~assau to Baltimore. Her cargo and other circumstances about her
being of suspicious character, I seized and sent her into Key West for
adjudication. Finding no communication at Stirrup Cay, I left there
on the 26th for this place, to make the necessary repairs alluded to, aiid
obtain coal and provisions. To accomplish these purposcs I am making
all possible dispatch. The nature of our repairs prevents coaling until
they are completed.
	At the earliest moment practicable 1 shall leave here. I shall prob-
ably be ready for sea the last of the week. The Qetorara is watchin

Page 11

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	11

the Providence Channels. The Tioga went to Havana, for what pur-
pose Commander Clary has doubtless informed you. I have not seen
him since the 16th of December.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
DANL. B. Rnx~ELY,
Commander, U S. Navy.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron.


Letter from Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tus-
carora, acknowledging receipt of orders and relative to blockade
runners.
U.	S. S. TUSOARORA,
Cadiz, January 5, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your orders of
September 5 and December 1, which reached me on my arrival here
January 3. I greatly regret that the order of September did not reach
me in time to have enabled me to avail myself of its import.
	I have not been able to obtain from Mr. Adams any information as
to the loading of vessels in rebel service; indeed, while this ship was
lying at Southampton in July last the Merrimac was openly freighted
with arms and ammunition at Plymouth, and her intention to run the
blockade a matter of public notoriety, bat I, although within a few
hours sail of the place, had no knowledge of her until her departure
was annoumn3ed in the papers. Since that event I have requested the
consul at Liverpool to notify me of all vessels under his knowledge
engaged in rebel employ. The bnsiness of running the blockade is so
emmormously profitable that a great many vessels are embarked in it.
My last communication will have informed you of several recently
overhauled by me at Fayal and Madeira, but without discovering goods
contraband of war on board.
	On closing the first year of this cruise I feel it my dnty to express
my entire satisfaction with the gentlemen who hold acting appoint-
ments as masters on board of this ship, and I have to recommend
Acting Masters Mate F. A. Miller for promotion to acting master; he
is a zealous and useful officer.
	I have been obliged to assign Corporal Henderson, of the marines,
to the duty of master at arms, and request that lie may be transferred
to that rating that he may be entitled to the pay. My marine guard is
reduced to eight men. Will you authorize me to enlist men as marines
to fill up the deficiencies?
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T. Auus. CRAVEN,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Letter from the U. S. consul at St. Thomas, West Indies, to the Secre-
tary of the Navy, reporting the presence of Confederate privateer
Retribution and consequent detention of American vessels.

CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
St. Thomas, January 5, 1863.
	SIR: On the 20th of December, 1862, I forwarded to the Department
of State certain information respecting a schooner called the Retribu

Page 12

12	OPERATIONS OF THE CRiTISERSUNION.

tion, stating my belief that she was a privateer, and on the same day
informed you that the San Jacinto had started in pursuit of her.
	I have flow to report that on January 3 the Re~ribution chased back
into this harbor two American vessels, the brig Wimore Meredith,, of
Baltimore, and time schooner Westward, of Bangor. There are at present
in this port a number of American vessels afraid to venture out.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOhN T. EDGAR,
U.	S. Consul.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, 1). C.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commodore Thatcher, U. S.

Navy, commanding U. S. ship Constellation.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 6, 1863.
	SIR:	Until otherwise ordered by the Department, you will remain in
the Mediterranean with the Constellation.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,

Commodore HENRY K. THATCHER,	Secretary of the Navy.
Commanding U. S. Ship Constellation, Spezia, Italy.


Order from the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes,
U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, not to trespass upon
British waters.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 8, 1863.
	SIR:	I transmit herewith a copy of a communication addressed to the
Secretary of State by Lord Lyons, together with copies of the letters
that accolnpallie(1 it, representing that our cruisers in the neighbor-
hood of the Bahamas are imm the habit of (lisregarding the regulations
of her Britannic Majestys Government with regard to the use by bel-
ligereiits of British waters. The Department enjoins upon you and
those under yonr command not to trespass upon what are clearly Brit-
ish waters. It is not an admitted fact that all the shoals about time cays
of the Bahamas beyond a mariime league from the shore are within the
territorialjurisdiction of Great Britain. In the case of the Blias Reed,
it would appear from Commander Collinss report that she was seized
about 4 miles distant from the cays in the vicinity.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,

Acting Rear-Admiral CHAS. WILKES, Secretary of the Navy.
Commanding West India Squadron, Havana.
[Enclosures.]

WASHINGTON, December 29, 1862.
	SIR:	I have the honor to lay before you copies of a (lispatch ammd of
a report enclosed in it, which I Imave received from Vice-Admiral Sir
Alexander Milne, commander in cimief of her Majestys naval forces on
the North American and West Indian station

Page 13

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	13

	The admiral informs me that it has been represented to him that the
commanders of the vessels of war of the United States in the neighbor-
hood of the Bahama Islands have disregarded tl~ regulations of her
Majestys Government with regard to the use by belligerents of British
waters, and he suggests that the attention of the naval officers should
be called by their own Govern ruent to these regulations.
	Intelligence has also been communicated to the admiral from which
it would seem that there is reason to fear that in one instance, at least,
a United States cruiser has even exercised belligerent rights within the
Queens dominions. You will see that if the statements in the enclosed
papers be correct, a schooner, the Etias Reed, has been captured within
her Majestys territorial jurisdiction.
	The regulations of her Majestys Government with regard to the use
of British waters by belligerents are well known to you. They were
published in the Official London Gazette of the 31st of January last,
and the attention of the U. S. minister in London was specially called to
them by her Majestys principal secretary of state for foreign aiThirs
in a note dated the 25th of last March. I am confident that the Gov-
ernment of the United States will be anxious to check all transgressions
of them by its naval officers.
	Nor do I doubt that if the facts in the case of the Jlias Reed be such
as they are represente(l to be, the Government of the United States will
be prompt to offer ample satisfaction to her Majesty~5 Government for
the violation of British territory, as well as to make due compensation
for any private losses which may have been caused by the unlawful
capture.
	i[ have the honor to be, with the highest consideration, sir, your most
obedient, humble servant,
LYoNS.
	Hon. WILLIAM H. SEWARD.


NILE, AT NASSAU, December 16, 1862.
	Mv LORD: I forward to your Excellency the following extracts of a
dispatch from Commander Malcolm, dated 24th ~ovember, 1862,
respecting the proceedings of the United States cruisers on the coasts
of the Bahama Islands:

	A letter dated 10th November, written b.y J. N. Brown, a police magistrate at
Green Turtle Cay, to the governor, Mr. Bayley, states the schooner Elias Reed, from
Georgia, laden with turpentine, had been captured by the U. S. cruiser Octorara,
Commander Collins, in some position not clearly defined to the eastward of a line
drawn from Fish Cay and the nearest point of Little Abaco, and to the westward of
Turtle Cay.
	It appears that the U. S. vessels Octorara, Coniniander Collins, and Sonorna, Com-
mander Stevens, came on the Little Bahama Bank, and were seen on the 5th Novern-
her by the Mary Mankin, Jobn Roberts, master, between Seal Cay and Strangers
Cay. The schooner Riles Reed was seen on the same day near Fish Cay going to the
eastward. On the 6th November the Octorara was seen near Seal Cay with the
Rues Reed as a prize. Mr. J. Nibbs Brown had an interview at Green Turtle Cay
with the United States commanders, Collins and Stevens. The former said the Rlia8
Reed had been captured out of British waters, and said he was going to the east-
ward through the narrow channel in order to see the remains of the wreck of the
Adirondack on Elbow Reefs.
	I hehieve it is the intention of his Excellency the governor to report the proceed-
ings of Rear-Admiral Wilkes and Commander Collins to the home Government.

	And on the same subject I transmit the copy of a representation
addressed to his Excellency C. J. Bayley, 0. B., the governor of the
Bahamas, from the police magistrate of Abaco. It is no doubt a well

Page 14

14	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.

established fact from information which has been conveyed to me that
the vessels of war of the United States are in the habit of disregarding
the instructions of her Majestys Government, a~id make use of and
anchor in the ports, roadsteads, an d waters of the Bahama Islands
without the leave of the governor and not from stress of weather, and,
as will be seen by Mr. Browns statement, they have even illegally
exercised belligerent rights within the limits of her Majestys dominions
by the capture of the schooner Elias Reed. This case appears to be so
clear a violation of neutral territory that I submit it for your Excel-
lencys consideration should you see fit to put forth any claim on behalf
of her owner, or to bring to the notice of the U. S. Government the
irregularities on the part of the United States cruisers in using the
cays within her Majestys territories in contravention of Earl Russells
letter of instructions of the 31st January, 1862, of which it would,
however, appear that the United States cruisers have not been officially
informed by their own Government.
	Further, I enclose copies of two notes on the subject which have just
been handed to me by Governor Bayley.
ALEXIi. MILNE,
Vice-Admiral and Commander in Chief.
Hon. LORD LYONS.



Letter from Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, regarding an implication of having violated British
territory.
U.	S. FLAG-STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Havana, January 24, 1863.
	SIR:	I am in receipt of your letter of January 8, transmitting a copy
of a communication addressed to the Secretary of State by Lord Lyons,
which I have attentively read. There is no definite charge made
against us that we have violated the British territory. So far as the
case of the Elias Reed is concerned, she was at least 4 miles from any
landby the oath of the officers of the Octoraraoutside of the neutral
territory. It is true she was on the Little Bahama Bank, bntit is held,
according to Wheatons Elements of International Law, part second,
page 234, that the term coast or shore does not properly compre-
hend all of the shoals which form sunken continuations of the land
perpetually under water. There has not been a case that has come
within my knowledge of any infringement of her Britannic Majestys
proclamation by anyone of my squadron, nor has any individual
belonging to the squadron in any way interfered with or done any
violence to the subjects of her Majesty. Stress of weather has fre-
qently caused our vessels to anchor on the banks, where there is no
jurisdiction whatever, and which are permanently covered with water.
But one capture has been made, of a small schooner within l~ or 2
miles of an isolated sand cay, some 6 or 7 miles from any land, and I
believe she has been restored at Key West, so I am informed by Coin-
niander Collins, who captured her. On the other hand, the whole
inhabitants, including the white population, give every aid and coun-
tenance to the rebels, affording them pilots, storing the goods of the
Confederate Government, and every other act that may be in their
power to lend. These are well-known facts to every one, and are not
denied. In fact, as much aid is given them as if they were a rebel
population. The whole trade of Nassau is made up now of these con-
traband operations

Page 15

15
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
	The version of the story given by Mr. Brown is very English, and
although the facts given relative to the peaceable visit of Commanders
Collins and Stevens are not denied, yet it is a mi~representation given
to please the authorities at Nassau. Mr. Brown was accompanied on
board the Octorara by a drunken companion named Saunders, collector,
and it was the conduct of this individual that shocked our officers, and of
which Commander Collins spoke to Mr. Brown. So far as Mr. Browns
complaint was concerned, he himself evinced every desire to have the
officers procure, by purchase, the few articles they took. The vessels
had been ordered by me to visit the wreck of the Adirondack, in obedi-
ence to your orders, and passed through and between the cays as a
common highway being used by all vessels engaged ~n trade to these
islands, when deemed necessary, and is so now, particularly by the
blockade runners, without hindrance whatever.
	It does seem to me very remarkable that when the British men-of-war
are receiving every attention and kindness in the ports of the Union,
they should show such a want of common courtesy as to endeavor to
find fault with or carp at what benefits, and small things, indeed, that
our vessels derive from the little intercourse they have had with any of
the inhabitants of these islands. They have always sought us, rather
than we them, for the, purpose of profit.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
ion. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. 0.



instructions of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding
West India Squadron, to Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, command-
ing U. S. S. Sonoma, regarding steamer Virginia.

FLAc~-STEAMER WAOHUSETT,
Mugeres Harbor, January 9, 1863.
	SIR: You will proceed in the Sonoma to Sisal on business connected
with the Confederate steamer Virginia, Captain Johnson, now in our
possession, awaiting the investigation of the authorities who have
detained her on suspicion of being a slaver. Not having received
any answer in the time stipulated in my agreement with Captain
Urcelay, you will inform the authorities that I cau not permit myself to
be any longer bound by the agreement made with him, the timeten
days~having expired. That the vessel is a Confederate steamer there
is no doubt, and can not be shielded from capture by any subterfuge, or
detained by them under any pretense. That she was sold to the Confed-
erates I have ample proof, at or before the time of her entering this port,
in which she put in distress to make repairs; that the Mexican author-
ities had no right to take her on suspicion of being a slaver. She
was therefore unjustly seized upon, and there is no proof of her being
engaged in the slave trade under Spanish colors, but merely suspicion
on the part of the officer who seized her for his personal benefit.
	It may be necessary for you to go to Merida to communicate with the
consul, Signor Patrullo, to whom It have written and sent a copy of the
agreement and certificate of Captain Johnson, of her being a Confed~
erate vessel, and demanding her clearance

Page 16

16	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSuNION.

	I need not say to you that it is necessary to act promptly with the
authorities in this case, and to take positive grounds as to our rights
to capture her.
	I see no difficulty in this question, or any likely to arise. A desire
to treat the Mexican authorities as a friendly power, and with good will
and friendship, has prevented me from acting at once at the same time
I can not permit the vessel to fall into the hands of the Confederates,
or in any manner escape from capture by ns.
	I have thought proper to take possession of the schooner Pepita, in
which part of the supplies of the steamer Virginia had been brought
from The llavannah by Captain Johnson, consisting of provisions for
her crew, who are now destitute of the mcans of support, and contra-
band articles, in consequence of depredations committed by the parties
appointed by Captain Urcelay to hold her in charge, and the infringe-
ment of the agreement entered into by him with me,in order that here-
after the same may be subject to adjudication when the Virginia shall
be tried before the prize courts of our country.
	There may arise many points of which I can have no conception in
this business, and therefore after the above general views your own
good sense and knowledge of the case must decide you how to act.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[CHAS. WILKES,]
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West india Squadron.
Commander T. H. STEVENS, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Steamer Sonoma, West India Squadron.



Report of Commander Collins, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Octorara,
of capture of British schooner Rising Dawn.

U.	S. S. OCTORARA,
At Sea, January 10, 1863.
	Siu: I have the honor to report that we this day captnrcd in North
West Providence Channel, in latitnde about 260 13 N. and longitude
abont 780 07 W., out of sight of any land, the English schooner Rising
Dawn, of about 130 tons burden, from Nassau, New Providence, bound
to New York, with a cargo of 2,638 bushels of salt. She has one family
of a man, his wife, and seven children
men, the mate, and captain. She 1ia~ as passengers, and a crew of five
in addition to the salt, the only
article nientioned in her manifest, lucifer matches, soap, coffee, arid
gunny bags.
	Her cal)tain admits to having remaine(l in port eighteen days after
the (late of clearing from the custom-house, and then sailed on the 31st
nitimo, and put back into Nassau on the same (lay from stress of
weather, arid sailed again yesterday. I sen(l her to Key West for
adjudication, in charge of Prize Master A. N. Gould, acting master,
U. S. Navy.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	N. COLLINS,
	Hon. GIPEON WELLES,	Commander.
Secretary of the Nave,, Washington, D. C

Page 17

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes,
U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, relative to movements
of C. S. S. Alabama and rumors of the Oreto~ (Florida) escape from
Mobile, Ala.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 10, 1863.

	SIR: From a dispatch recently received from Commander Roncken-
dorff of the San Jacinto, it is feared there is another piratical steamer in
the West Indies besides the Alabama. Commander ltonckeiidorff
learned at Barbados that a steamer supposed to be the Alabama was or
had been at the island of Blanquihla coaling from a schooner. He pro-
ceeded thither via Cnmana and arrivcd there on the II Lth of Decem-
ber, but the suspicions steamer had left the evening previous.
Although the description given by the few persons on the is~nd cor-
responds with that of the Alabama, a comparison of dates dispels the
idea that the two vessels are identical.
	The Alabama captured the Arid December 7, oft Cape Maysi, and
released her on the evening of the 9th, whereas the steamer which
coaled at Blanquilla left there on the 14th, having been there five or
six days.
	it is possible this latter vessel may have been the Oreto, as it was not
long since rumored that she had escaped from Mobile. She is almost
a sister ship to the Alabama, except that she has two funnels.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting t~ear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding iVest India Squadron, Havana, Cuba.



Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Cavendy, U. S. Navy, command-
ing U. S. bark Gemsbok, relative to the transport ships Lucinda and
Sparkling Sea running on a reef

U.	S. BARK GEMSBOK,
Turtle Harbor, E. Pla., January 10, 1863.
	SIR: It again devolves upon me to report to you another series of
disasters happening in this vicinity. On the afternoon of January 7,
at 4 oclock, a large ship was (lescried 13 miles to the northward of
ns running down with fair wind and weather, nutil she ran on the reef
a short distance to the northward of Beacon M. Noticed her clew up
sails, endeavoring to get off, without success. I sent the launch with
an officer and crew at once to their assistance, who fiuially, after many
eftbrts, succeeded in kedging her off the reef into deeper water to await
a change of wind or a steamer to proceed from her dangerous position.
Her name is the Lucinda, captain [Thomas Smith~?], from hampton
IRoads, Virginia, and one of the transports composing the fleet of Major-
General Bankss expedition; was laden with a company of troops,~
accompanying Battery , which was on board, with horses, forage,
etc. Early on the morning of the 9th of January another large ship
was noticed to have run on the reef about 3 miles to the southward of
the Lucinda and within a few fathom s of Beacon N.
	The launch, which had not yet returned from the first vessel, imme-
diately ran down to her, and, going on board, ascertained her to he the
ship Sparkling Sea, from the same place, and employed in the same
	NWRVOLII	

Page 18

18	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

service as the tucinda, with like cargo. Found her beating heavily,
broadside to on the reef, and hold full of water, and useless to attempt
to save her. She will prove a wreck.
	I dispatched word to Rear-Admiral Bailey, K~y West, concerning
these disasters, and requested him to send a steamer up to save Gov-
ernment property. Fortunately the U. S. S. Sagctmore c me along on
the 9th and towed the Lucinda out in the Gulf, and she pioceeded on
her voyage without need of further assistance. She makes but little
water and can finish her voyage. The Sagamore also took off the troops
from the Sparkling Sea and took them to Key West. There is a small
wrecking schooner alongside her, which caii take off the crew when
required. I attribate the disasters to the ships as arising from care-
lessness in not heaving the lead to ascertain where they were. Soon
after the Sparkling Sea struck her crew refused to do duty, and I have
an officer on board with boats crew to preserve discipline and secure
Government property.
	January 16.Since writing the above the weather has been so bad
that [it] has prevented all communication to the ship, there being a
strong easterly gale blowing, and the ship and cargo, consisting of a
battery, with I.orses and forage, will prove a total loss.
Very respectfully, etc.,
EDWARD CAVTINDY,
Acting [Volunteer] Lieutenant, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.


Engagement between the U. S. S. Hatteras and C. S. S. Alabama, January
11, 1863.

Report of Lieutenant..Commander Blake, U. S. Navy, of the engagement between the U. S. S.
Hatteras, under his command, and the C. S. S. Alabama, Captain Semmes, C. S. Navy.

U.	S. CONSULATE,
Kingston, Jamaica, January 21, 1863.
	SIR: It is my painful duty to inform the Department of the destruc.
tion of the U. S. S. Hatteras, recently under my command, by the Con.
federate steamer Alabama on the night of the 11th instant off the coast
of Texas. The circumstances of the s~d disaster are as follows:
	Upon the afternQon of the 11th instant at 3:30 oclock, while at anchor
in company with the fleet under Commodore Bell, off Galveston, Tex.,
I was ordered by a signal from the U. S. flagship Brooklyn to chase a
sail to the southward and eastward. I got underway immediately and
steamed with all speed in the direction indicated. After some time the
strange sail could be seen from the ilatteras and was ascertained to be
a steamer, which fact I communicated to the flagship by signal. I con-
tinued the chase and rapidly gained upon the suspicions vessel. Know-
ing the slow rate of speed of the Hatteras, I at once suspected that
deception was being practiced, and hence ordered the ship to be cleared
for action with everything in readiness for a determined attack and a
vigorous defense. When within about 4 miles of the vessel, I observed
that she had ceased to steam and was lying broadside on, a waiting us.
it was nearly 7 oclock and quite dark, but notwithstanding the obscu-
rity of the night I felt assured from the general character of the vessel
and her maneuvering, that I should soon encounter the rebel steamer
Alabama

Page 19

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	19

	Being able to work but four guns upon one side of the Hatteras, two
short 32-pounders, one 30-pounder rifled Parrett gun, and one 20-
pounder rifled gun, I concluded to close with her~u order that my guns
might be effective, if necessary. I came within easy speaking range,
about 75 yards, and upon asking What steamer is that6? received
the answer, Her Britannic Majestys ship Vixem I replied that I
would send a boat aboard, and immediately gave the order. In the
meantime both vessels were changing their positions, the stranger
endeavoring to gain a desirable position for a raking fire. Almost
simultaneously with the piping away of the boat the strange craft again
replied, We are the Confederate steamer Alabama, which was
accompanied by a broadside. 1 at the same moment return c(I tue fire.
Being well aware of tIme many vulnerable points of the Ilaticras, I
hoped by closing with the Alabama to be able to board he:, and thus
rid the seas of this piratical craft.
	I steamed directly for the Alabama, but she was enabled by he
great speed and the foulness of the bottom of the Hatteras, and con-
sequently her diminished speed, to thwart my atternl)t, when I had
gained a distance of but 30 yards from her. At this range, musket
and pistol shots were exchanged. The firing continued with great
vigor on both sides. At length a shell entered amidship in the hold,
setting fire to it, and at the same instant, as I can hardly divide the
time, a shell passed through the sick bay, exploding in an a(l,jaining
compartment, also producing fire. Another entered the cyii~ider, fill-
ing the engine room and deck with steam, and depriving me of all
power to maneuver the vessel or to work the pumps, upon which the
reductiou df the fire depended.
	With the vessel on fire in two places, and beyond human power a
hopeless wreck upon the water, with her walking beani shot away and
her engine rendered useless, I still maintained an active fire, with a
double hope of disabling the Alabama and of attracting the attention
of the fleet off Galveston, which was only 28 immiles distant. It was
soon reported to me that shells had entered the Hatteras at the water
line, tearing oft entire sheets of iron, and that the water was rushing
in, utterly defying every attempt to remedy the evil, and that she was
rapidly sinking. Learning this melancholy truth, and ob~erving that
the Alabama was on my part bow, entirely beyond range of my guns,
doubtless preparing for a raking fire of the decks, I felt that 1 had no
right to sacrifice uselessly, and without any desirable result, the lives
of all under my command.
	To prevent the blowing up of the Hatteras from the fire, which was
making much progress, I ordered the magazine to be flooded, and after-
wards a lee gun to be fired. The Alabama then asked if assistance was
desired, to which an affirmative answer was given.
	The Hatteras was now rapidly going down, and, in order to save the
lives of my officers and men, I caused the armament of the ship on the
port side to be thrown overboard. Ilad I not done so, I am cc~~tident
that the vessel would have gone down with ma: y hearts an(l valuable
lives. After considerable delay, caused by a report that a steamer was
seen comilig from Galveston, the Alabama sent us assistance, amid I have
the pleasure to inform the Department that every living being was
conveyed safely from the Hatteras to the Alabama, Teu minutes after
leaving the Hatteras she went down bow first with her pennant at her
~pa~thead, with all her muskets and stores of every charactep, the
enenmy not being able, ~wiug tQ h9~ raphi ~h4ihmg, to eltaPt a ~ing1o
WQ~~~QT

Page 20

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	The battery upon the Alabama brought into action against the Iliat-
teras numbered seven guns, consisting of four long 32-pounders, one
100-pounder rifle gun, one 68-pounder, and one 24-~pounder rifled gun.
	The great superiority of the Alabama, with her iowerful battery and
her machinery, etc., under the water line, must be at once recognized
by the Department, who are familiar with the construction of the
Hatteras and her total unfitness for a contest with a regularly built
vessel of war. The distance between the Hatteras and the A labarna
during the action varied from 25 to 100 yards. Nearly fifty shots were
fired from the Hatteras, and I presume a greater number from the
Alabama.
	I desire to refer to the efficient and active manner in which Acting
Master Henry [0.] Porter, executive officer, performed his duty. The
conduct of Assistant Surgeon Edward S. Matthews, both dariiig action
and afterwards, in attention to the wounded, dciii aiids my unqualified
commendation. I would also bring to the favorable notice of the
Department Acting Masters Mate F. J. McGrath, temporarily per-
forming duty as gunner. Owing to the darkness of the night and the
peculiar construction of the Hatteras, I am able only to refer to the
conduct of those officers who caine under my especial attention, but
from the character of the contest and the amount of damage done to
the Alabama, I have personally no reason to believe that any officer
failed in his duty. To the men of the Hatteras I can not give too much
praise. Their enthusiasm and bravery was of the highest order.
	I enclose the report of Assistant Surgeoii Edward S. Matthews, by
which you will observe that five mcii were wounded and two killed.
The missing, 145 is hoped, have reached the fleet at Galveston. I shall
communicate to the Department, in a separate report, the movements
of myself and command horn the time of our transfer to the Alabama
until the departure of the earliest mail from this place to the United
States.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
II.	C. BLAKE,
Lieutenant- Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. (J.

[Enclosure.]

U.	S. CONSULATE,
Kingston, Jamaica, January 21, 1863.
	SIR: I have to report to you the annexed list of casualties as result-
ing from our recent brilliant but disastrous engagement with the rebel
steamer Alabama:
	John C. Cleary, fireman, Ireland, killed.
	William Ilealy, coal heaver, Ireland, killed.
	Edward MeGower, fireman, Ireland, severe wound of thigh.
	Edward Matlack, carpenters mate, Delaware, slight wound of hand.
	John White, boy, first class, Ireland, slight wound of leg.
	Christopher Sleptowiteb, seaman, Austria, slight wound of back.
	Patrick Kane, landsrnan, Ireland, slight wound of leg.
	Acting Master Partridge and five men are missing, all of whom we
may hope have reached the fleet at Galveston. The wounded are in a
favorable condition and will soon be able to return to duty in the serv-
ice of their country. Although destituteowing to the rapid sinking
of the Hatterasof all medical stores, and even of sufficient coverin

Page 21

OPERATIONS OP THE ORUISERSUNION~	21


for the wounded, yet no difficulty was experienced in their proper treat-
merit. An ample supply of medicines and surgical appliances was
placed at my disposal for the use of the sick an~ wounded of the Hat-
teras by the medical officers of the Alqbama.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient seivant,
EDWARD S. MATTHEWS,
Assistant Surgeon, U. S. Navy.
	Lieutenant-Commander H. C. BLAKE,
Late commanding U. S. &#38; Hatteras.


Parole given by officers of the U. S. S. Hatteras to the commander of the C. S. S. Alabama.

	We, the undersigned, commander and officers of the U. S. gunboat
Hatteras, in consideration of our release as l)risOner$ of war by the
commander of the C. S. S. Alabama, do hereby solemnly pledge our
sacred word of honor that we will not hear arms or 111 any manner
serve against the Confederate States during the present war, or until
regularly exchanged.
	Signed by commander and other officers.
C.	S. S. Alabama, at sea, January 11, 1863.
	Witnessed by W. B. Smith, commanders clerk.
	Certified to as a true and correct copy from the original on i)oard the
Alabama.
		W.	B. SMITH,
		 Gommanders Clerk.



Report of Acting Master Partridge, U. S. Navy, of engagement between U. S. S. Hatteras.
Lieutenant-Commander Blake, U. S. Navy, and C. S. S. Alabama, Captain Semmes,
C. S. Navy.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP BROOKLYN,
Galreston, Jannary 12, 1863.
	SIR: A strange sail heaving in sight oft this place on the 11th, tlie
Hatteras was signalized to go in chase., We soon made the sail out to
be a bark-rigged steamer, apparently endeavoring to escape us. We
continued to gain on her gradually, until about 6 :30 p. in., when we
seemed to come up with her very fast. All hands were at quarters and
everything ready for action at least twenty minutes before we came
within hail, when Captnin Blake asked, What ship is thatl I under-
stoo(l the answer to be, Her Majestys ship Spitfire. Captain Blake
then said, 1 w.ill send a boat oim board. I was ordered to take charge
of the boat. I had not moved one boats length from the ship when the
enemy opened fire on the Hatteras, which was immediately returned
by the Hatteras. Both steamers then started ahead at full speed,
exchanging broadsides for about fifteen minutes, when the firing ceased
with great guns, but I heard a volley of musketry, which I thought
was from both ships, they not being over 100 yards apart at any time
during the action. I then discovered that the Hatteras had stopped,
and was a~)parently blowing oft steam, but it might have been the
steam escaping from some injury during the action. I also saw the
enemy steam up alongside of the hatteras, and, as I supposed, board
her. It being dark, I could not see the men, but I heard the cheering
distinctly.
	Up to this tnue 1 had been following the vessels, endeavoring to get
on board, but was not able to do so. I now became satisfied that the
Hatteras had been captured, and not knowing whether the fleet coul

Page 22

22	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

see us or not, we being some 20 miles from them, I thought it my duty
to get l)ack as sooti as possible. Although I had no compass, I arrived
here safe this morning at daylight.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
L.	H. PARTRIDGE,
S.	Navy.
	Rear-Admiral D. G. FARRAGUT,	Acting Master U
Western Gulf Squadron.

Report of Lieutenant-Commander Blake, U. S. Navy, late commanding U. S. S. Hatteras, of

arrival at Kingston, 3amaica.

U.	S. CONSULATE,
Kingston, Jamaica, January 27, 1863.
	SIR: I had the honor to communicate to the Department under (late
of 21st January a detailed account of the loss of the U. S. S Hatteras,
in action with the rebel steamer Alabama. I have now the honor to
inform the Department that after the transfer of niyself and command
from the U. S. S. Hatteras to the rebel steamer Alabama the officers
were allowed the liberty of the vessel and the men placed in irons.
	Alter a stormy voyage of nine days we arrived at Port Royal,
Jamaica. As soon as permission could be obtained from the authmori-
ties we were placed ashore by Commander Semines at Port Royal, and
were with all dispatch conveyed to Kingston, under the guidance of
the American vice-consul, John N. Camp. The condition of officers and
men was trul~T pitiable; neither saved a single article of clothing, and
men had not sufficient covering to protect their bodies from the inclem-
ency of the weather. Landed on an unfriendly shore, in a state of
abject destitution that should have commanded the sympathy of avowed
enemies, we felt keenly the unkind criticisms of those who profess to
have no dislike for our Government or its people. Under these circum-
stances, in order to maintain the health of officers and men, I have had
110 choice but to supply their urgent necessities, and to draw upon the
Navy Department for funds.
	Much credit is due to U. S. Vice-Consul John N. Camp, to whose
J)rompt action we are indebted for an immediate amelioration of our
condition. Feeling the necessity of reaching the Ummited States at
the earliest opportunity, I have chartered, under the direction of
the American vice-consul, the American ship Bordino, commanded by
Master Flowers. I shall call at Key West, so that the men may be sup-
plied with clothing, and shall use every exertion to reach the United
States without delay.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
H. C. BLAKE,
Lieutenant- Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Lieutenant-Commander Blake, U. S. Navy, late
commanding U. S. S. Hatteras, stating the favorable report of court of enquiry held on the
loss of that vessel.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, March 23, 1863.
	SIR:	It gives me pleasumie to inform you that the court of enquiry
recemitly convened at the navy yar(l, New Yomk, for time purpose of
investigating the circ~tmstances attending time loss of the steamer
Hatteras under your command,. report that prior to aH(l daring th

Page 23

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	23

action you discharged your duties as commander in an efficient and
praiseworthy manner, and that your conduct thereafter was alto-
gether commendable and proper.
	The court report also that the conduct of the officers and crew of
tite Hatteras was good, and every effort made by them to defend and
preserve the vessel in this very unequal contest; and that after her loss,
until their arrival in iNew York, their conduct was irreproachable, with
the exception of that of Acting Assistant Paymaster F. A. Conkling
and John McDonald, lan dsman.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Lieutenant-Commander II. C. BLAKE, U. S. Navy,
New York.


Report of Acting Master Williams, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship
mo, of cruise in search of 0. 5. S. Alabama (290), in vicinity of St.
Helena.
U.	S. SHIP INO,
Off St. Helena, January 12, 1863.
	Siu: In obedience to your order of November 3, 1862, I sailed from
the navy yard, Brooklyn, N. Y., on the 4th instant [November]. On
the morning of the 5th November I took my powder on board at Bed-
bes Island, and went to sea in search of the Alabama, or 290. When
in the latitude of 390 N., longitude 690 W., I experienced a heavy gale
from the N. E.; carried away my foreyard, and did other damage to
the ship. From here I shaped my course for the Western Islands; rau
within 300 miles of them, having very bad weather all the time. Then
I shaped my course for the track of outward-bound South American
traders. When in the latitude 29~ N., longitude 410 W., saw a large
steamer steering N. W. It being calm at the time I could not follow
her. From here I shaped my course for St. Helena, arriving there on
the 5th of January, 1863. After remaining in port thirty hours I was
notified through the American consul that I was infringing on the
Queens proclamation, and that I was requested to leave immediately.
While lying here I had to procure 9,000 gallons of fresh water, and not
having any specie on board 1 sought to draw a draft on the Depart-
ment, but it was impossible to do so. I then offered to draw on the
U.	S. legation in London, which I could do, providing Mr. Gerard
would endorse the bills. Thinking it an insult to the Government of
the United States, Mr. Georges Gerard kindly obliged me with funds
from his private purse to disburse the ships expenses. It is with
pleasure I recommend to the favorable notice of the Department the
patriotic and obliging manner of Mr. Gerard toward us while staying
at St. Helena.
	I am now cruising off St. Helena in the track of homeward-bound
American vessels. I have not heard of any Confederate vessels in the
South Atlantic or on the coast of A frica.
	I am in hopes my proceedings will meet with the approbation of the
Departm cut.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAMES M. WILLIAMS,
Acting Master, Gommanding U. S. Ship mo.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secrc~ary of the Navy

Page 24

24	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from Secretary of the Ndvy to Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S.
Navy, commanding lVest India Squadron, concerning desire for

friendly relations between United States and Gr~at Britain by both
nations.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 14, 1863.

	SIR: The subject of official intercourse and civilities, and the inter-
change of customary courtesies, between our naval officers and those of
Great Britain, and also with the colonial authorities of that Govern-
meat, has received the attention not only of this but the State Depart-
ment, and also of her Majestys representative, Lord Lyons.
	It is the desire of each and all that a mutual friendly feeling should
be cultivated and maintained, and his lordship gives assurance that
he will address the naval officers of the British service in the Gulf
enjoining upon them the practice in a liberal spirit of all customary
courtesies and attention to yourself and othcr officers of this Govern-
ment in the service.
	It is gratifying to me to know that you will be wanting in no act of
comity. It is expected at all times, and especially desired at this period
of affairs, that you should receive aiid extend all customary courtesies
to the British authorities on sea aiid land.
	Report to the Department any case which may occur in which due
attentions and courtesies are refused to yourself or the officers under
your command by British authorities.
	I have the highest assurances that her Britannic Majestys Govern-
ment are as desirous as we are to allay the irritations which have here-
tofore prevailed in that quarter.
	I have confi~ience in your intelligence, zeal, and fidelity to serve the
country by enlightened forbearance when guarding its interests, as well
as in forcibly maintaining, when necessary, its rights.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,

Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES, Secretary of the Navy.
Commanding West India Squadron, Havana, Cuba.




Letter from Commander Nichols, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Ala-
bama, to U. S. consul at havana, Cuba, calling attention to privateer
schooner Retribution in harbor of St. Thomas, lYest undies, and enclos-
ing report to Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy.

U. S. S. ALAEAMA,
St. Thomas, January 14, 1863.
	SIR: I send with this a letter for Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes or any
other naval officer who may be at Havana senior to me in rank. A
I)rivateer schooner called the Retribution has been cruising of late
round here, and has chased two American vessels back into the harbor.
She was formerly the towboat Uncle Ben, of Charleston, but now hails
from Wilmington as the Retribution, and recently arrived here from
Wilmington with a cargo of cotton and turpentine, which was sold and~
the proceeds, or a part of them, applied to fitting her out as a privateer.
A schooner was purchased, and itis supposed that the arms, ammunition,.
and equipments for the Retribution were sent out in this schooner at night.
She is a~dangerons-vessel to have about, and Lh~vesent to the admira

Page 25

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	25

and to the Kavy I)epartment a full description of her. I think we
should have a small, handy steamer always in the neighborhood of this
place, and I would stay about here myself if my~instructions would
justify me in so doing. After I have received my coal there will be but
about 400 tons of anthracite on hand here, and this is all in the hands
of the British vice-consul, who sells it to the blockade runners, and I
donbt whether I shall be able to get any more of it after this. I have
had great difficulty in negotiating a draft on the Government at 40 per
cent disconnt to pay for my coal at $14 the ton. It is a very unpleas-
ant predicament to be placed in, but I can do nothing better than I
have done, as I wa~ furnished neither with funds nor credit,
	A man calling himself Colonel Hicks came out in the Retribution and
went to Havana in the last English steamer. I understand that he
claims to have letters of marque for another vessel, which he may proba-
bly endeavor to fit out at Havana.
	You will confer a very great favor by forwarding to me here by the
return steamer any letters or papers you may have for this vessel.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
E~. T. NIcHOLS,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
U.	S. CONSUL, Havana, Cuba.
[Enclosure.]

U. S. S. ALABAMA,
St. Thomas, January 14, 1863.
	SIR: I enclose a copy of the orders under which I am acting. I
arrived her&#38; on the morning of the 9th instant, and finding much
excitement among the masters of American vessels in the harbor in
consequence of the appearance off the port of a Confederate privateer
schooner called the Retribution, and the chasing by her of two Amen-
can vessels back to the harbor, I went to sea again the next morning
and cruised for two days and nights in the Virgin Passage, the north
an(l south sides and east end of Porto [Puerto] Rico, but without
seeing anything of her. The Retribution is an old propeller towboat
with engines out, and rigged as a schooner, with short lower masts,
very square lower sails, amid unusually large gaff-topsails; her fore
staysail comes down to the stem. She has a rounded steamboat bow,
without cutwater, aid a round, overhanging stern, and carries a waist
boat. She is said to be armed with three 9-pounder rifles, and is very
fast. There is mmo coal here belonging to the Government, and I am
obliged to purchase at $14 per ton, and pay by draft at 40 per cent dis-
count, and troubled to get it at that. The stock of hard coal here is~
small, only about 400 tolls, and is in the hands of the British vice~
consul, .~vho, I am informed, sells to any amid every one. So soon as my~
coal is on board and repairs completed I shall cruise, and endeavor to.~
be here by the time the mmext steamer arrives from Havana, when I,
hope to receive from you orders or advice as to my future con4uct~
The British steamer Pe~irl left here yesterday for Nassau where she~
will- take in her cargo for running the blockade. She is a small, low
steamer~ two white pipes, and white wheelbouses, said to be very fast~
and I~judge she is, from the manner she left the harbor. There is another
here, eahled the IrJavelock, repairilig. She will leave soon. This place is
becoming quite a depot for blockade runners. The intercolonial boats
of the West India Company are all in, but I can learn nothing of the
Alabama. The latest intelligence of her is the capture of the Ariel.
	I have written to the Department suggesting that a sup~)ly of coal
~hould.be sent here,~if it is intended to keep a force among the islands

Page 26

26	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

At present it is exceedingly embarrassing and mortifying to be obliged
to go around almost begging persons to buy a Government draft, and
to be told, as we have been by some, that 40 per~cnt was fair, but that
they would not touch it at 50 per cent discount. United States legal-
tender notes, the only funds we have, are 50 per cent discount, and a
great favor rendered to take them at that.
Jam, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ED. T. NICHOLS,
	Commander.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
U.	S. S. Wachusett, Havana.



Report of Commander Collins, U. ASr. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Octo
rara, of capture of English sloop Brave.

U. S. S. OCTORARA,
At Sea, January 15, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that we this day, about 4:30 p. in.,
seized in the North West Providence Channel, in latitude about 25~ 52
N. and longitude about 780 35 W.,the English sloop Brave, of about
9 tons, from and of Nassa u, New Providence, with a cargo of 110 sacks
of salt and 3 bales of sponge, bound to Baltimore. The persons found
on board ar~e the captain, Edmund Gardner, a mate, two seamen, and
one boy, a passenger. There was neither land nor vessels in sight at
the time of her seizure.
	1 send the Bravc to Key West for adjudication in charge of Acting
Ensigii George F. Ilollis. herewith I send a coruplete list of the
officers and crew of this vessel entitled to share in the capture of the
Brave. The master, Edin und Gardner, was taken in the Mary Teresa
last May by the Unadilla, uIl(ler my command,
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	N. COLLINS,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commander konckcndorfl~, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
San Jacinto, of chase of two steamers, and acknowledging receipt of
orders to join Eastern Gulf Blockading Squadron.

U.	S. S. SAN JACINTO,
Key West, January 15, 1863.
	SIR: I left St. Thomas on the 1st instant, the mail steamer not arriv-
ing from Havana, being three days overdue. On my way to this place
I communicated at Ponce, island of Porto [Puerto] Rico, and Jacinel,
island of Sari IDoiningo, and sent a description of the Dixie and Retri-
bution, with a request that our consuls on the islands should be informed
of such vessels being out.
	When off Cape Tiburon, and in sight of the island of Navassa, on
the morning of the 7th instant, I sighted two steamers, apparently in
company, standing to the southward. I immediately gave chase. The

Page 27

27
OPERATIONS OF THE CRLIISERSUNION.
soon left me, having superior speed; both two-masted; judged them to
be American, burning, as I had reason to suppose~ anthracite coal, no
smoke appearing during a chase of three and a half hours. By my
calculations our Aspinwall steamers would pass there about that time.
	Arrived off Havana on the morning of the 14th instant; sent Lieu-
tenant-Commander Chandler and Dr. Bragg to communicate with the
shore, but was denied permission by a regulation from the governor-
general that no boat could communicate with the shore from a vessel
outside.
	On my arrival here I received an order from Acting Rear-Admiral
Theodorus Bailey to consider myself, with the San Jacinto under my
command, attached to the Eastern Gulf Squadron, until further orders.
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. RONCKENDORFF,
Commander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Escape of the C. S. S. Florida from Mobile, January 16, 1863.

Report of Commodore Hitchcock, U. S. Navy, commanding U. 5. 5. Susquehanna, of escape of
C. 5. S. Florida (Oreto) from Mobile.

U.	S. S. SUSQUETIANNA,
Off Mobile, January 16, 1863.
	SIR: For the past three days we have had bad weather from the
southward and eastward and a heavy sea. Yesterday the wind hauled
to the westward and increased in force. In the afternoon a break in
the clouds to the northward permitted us to see the Oreto inside and
to the eastward of Fort Morgan (full bark rigged). I gave orders for
the Guy icr and Pinola to close iii with us from the northward and east-
ward to one-half their usual distance; Oneida to do the same from the
northward and westward. The Pembina, which had the duty of guard-
ing the main channel, but had been driven outside the bar the night
l)revious by the high sea, was placed as near the bar as possible.
Before night I sent the Pembina to conununicate verbally with the
Pinola, Cuyler, and Oneida to say that the Cuyler and Oneida were the
chasing vessels if the Oreto came out. (The Cuyler had signalized the
approach of the Oreto.) Also made general telegraphic signal, Oreto
exl)ected out; keep full steam.
	At 3:15 this morning the Pembina made signal Vessel running out;
made general signal Vessel running out, beat to quarters, and pre-
pared to slip. At 3:30 Cuylcr made signal Steamer running out;
made general signal Chase. Saw a.red light, supposed to be the Pem-
binas, pass to the eastward. Did not see the Oreto or any of our vessels,
except the Pembina, from the darkness of the night. A light was
reported a little to the eastward of the Oneidas position, from which I
supposed she was underway, but about 4 oclock a. m. the breaking of
the clouds and rising moon showed her to us stmll at anchor.
	At 4 this afternoon the Pembina returned. Captain Temple states
that he saw a vessel under sail running out. Thought it might be an
attempt to divert our attention from the Oreto, but made the signal,
slipped his chain, and ran for her. The Guyler soon crossed his course
and hoisted a light. The vessel was lost sight of; but the Pembina fol-
lowed her light until daylight. After running some 30 miles abou

Page 28

28	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

S.	S. E. he left the chase, and thinks the Onyler then was some 8 miles
ahead of him, the Oreto 12. The Pembina was ~ot one of the vessels
pointed out to continue the chase indefinitely, bat, like all the gunboats,
was riot to leave the blockade of this port.
	Captain Jenkins, who left the Oneida on the 13th by your order, is
still on board this ship, waiting a passage to New Orleans.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant~
li.	B. HITCHCOCK,
Commodore.
	l~ear-Admiral D. G. FARRAGUT,
Commanding Western Gulf Blockading Squadron.


~eport of Captain Hazard, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Oneida, of escape of C. S. S. Florida
fOreto) from Mobile.

U.	S. S. ONEIDA,
Off Mobile Bay, January 17, 1863.
	SIR: At 3:25 a. in. on the morning of the 16th of January, having
extra lookouts placed, it was reported to me that the Susquehanna was
making concerted signal No. 2, white and red (vessel running out this
pass). Pembina then hoisted a red light, soon after which the Cuyler
made concerted signal No. 3, white aiid green (steamer running oat).
	As soon as signal was made that a vessel was running out I beat to
quarters, stationing extra lookouts, having everything in readiness to
slip chain ii~ case I saw a steamer running between me and the Susque-
hanna. Everything being quiet, not hearing the report of guns, and
the Cuyler appearing to be in her berth by the bearings taken at sun-
set, induced me and the other officers to think it a mistake or false
alarm, particularly as I was within sight of the Susquehanna, and had
been so nearly all.the watch from midnight to 4 a. m. and she not
making any signal for me to chase, although it had been told me the
afternoon previous to chase the Oreto, which I should have done if I
had seen her passing out the western part of the mouth of the main
channel, where I was stationed to prevent the escape of any vessel
passing between me and the Susquehanna. I should also have chased
I lie Oreto had I seen her passing out between the Susquehanna and
Cuyler, the latter vessel protecting. the eastward part of the main
channel.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, ~. F. HAZARD,

Commanding U. S. S. Oneida.
Commodore ill. B. HITCHCOCK,
Commanding Division, Western Gulf Blockading Squadron.


First report of Commander Emmons, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. IL. IL. Cnyler, of escape
of C. S. S. Florida (Oreto) from Mobile.

U.	S. S. P. R CUYLER
Off Cape San Antonio, January 21, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that while upon blockade off Mobile,
on the night of the 15th instant, and (luring a northwest gale, a vessel
passed between us and th~ commodore, running out under steam and
sail, supposed to be the Oreto, although the officer who had the best
sight of her says he could distinguish but two masts. We had stea

Page 29

29
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
up and all ready to slip as usual, and iu five minutes were turning to
pursue her with all hands at quarters, agreeably to previous arrange-
ment and orders from Commodore Hitchcock. Fiv~minutes more were
required to describe a semicircle and bring the enemy ahead, who, owing
to the darkness and rolling motion of the vessel, could barely be kept
sight of until daylight, when he appeared to be about 5 miles distaut,
and in spite of all the sail and steam we could carry, and other expe-
dients of trimming ship resorted to, rather increased this distance dur-
ing the following day; but toward evening, as the gale moderated, we
were evidently gaining upon him, and with a few more hours of day-
light, I think, would have had him within reach of our chase gun; but as
darkness set in we lost sight of him at 6:32p.m., and although our course
was altered several times in hopes of confirming reports of his where-
abouts, nothing more was seen of him, and my general course remained.
the same; about S. S. E., toward the west end of Cuba, where I thought
it most probable he was bound, and where I thought there was some
prospect of my again seeing him. Ou the morning of the 18th 1 over-
hauled, or passed sufficiently near to satisfy myself of the character of
several sail that I fell iu with off Cape San Antonio, and having found
Commander IRidgely, of the Santiago de Cuba, cruising here, I obtained
from him such information as led me to believe that the Oreto would
endeavor to meet a large secesh steamer lying at the island of Mugeres,
on the opposite coast of Yucatan. I therefore shaped my course there
on the night of the 18th, and in company with the Santiago de Cuba,
which alone had sailing directions for the place, sighted the island on
the followingday and saw several vessels inside, but the weather was
thick and squally and the sea too high (lee shore) to hazard an entrance.
We therefore lay off and on during the following night, amid on the
morning of the 20th 1 stood close inshore and sent in an armed boat
to reconnoiter, and if practicable to communicate, which was done.
The officer found upon the island a population of some 300 to 500 l)eople,
and some nine small vessels, two of the latter, coasting schooners, under
Mexican colors, the others fishing vessels and mostly American build.
From the Mexican official stationed here the officer learned that the
large and suspicious iron steamer before allnded to had been removed
several days previous by Admiral Wilkes and gone north. The people
were very friendly and communicative, and although this place may
have been selected as a rendezvous for rebel vessels, I think it has been
abandoned since the first visit of Admjral Wilkes.
	Since returning here last night I have fallen in with Admiral Wilkes
(who sent the suspicious steamer to Key West), and have been ordered
by him to visit the Grand Cayman and a port on the south side of this
island, where he thinks there may be a rendezvous for the rebel priva-
teers. It will then be necessary for me to look for coal, perhaps Key
West, and rejoin the squadron or act as information may appear to
justify. Will give you the earliest news of future movements.
	In conclusion, I should perhaps mention that soon after daylight on
tIme 16th, finding that one of the smaller gunboats (and not the Oneida,
as supposed) was following, but dropping astern of mne, that I smgnalmzed
her to abandon the chase, believing at the time that I would overhaul
the Oreto before night, and that I could do without her.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEO. F. EMMoNS,
Commander.
	Admiral D. G. FARRAOTTT,
Commanding Western Division, Gulf Blockading Squadron

Page 30

30	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Second report of Commander Emmons, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. R. B. Onyler, of escape
of C. S. S. Florida (Oreto) from Mobile.

U.	S. S. 1~ 11. CUYLER,
Off Mobile, March 12, 1863.
	SIR: I received to-day your communication of the 10th instant, asking
for a report of the occurrences connected with the escape of the Florida
(Oreto), rebel privateer from Mobile on the 16th of January, 1863, etc.
I was under the impression I had sent, through you, to Admiral Farra-
gut, a report of the material facts some two months since, but I may
have omitted to mention occurrence~
call for.	s of the preceding day, which you
	Upon reference to my journal it appears that on the 15th of January,
1863, the blockading force off Mobile was composed of the following
force: U. S. steamers Susquehanna, Oneida, P. P. Onyler, Pembina,
Aroostook, Kennebee, and Pinola.
	From the position of the Onyler, the &#38; tsquehanna bore S. W. 4 S.;
Fort Morgan lig.ht-honse, N. by W. ~ W.; Sand Island light-house,
N. W. by W. 4W.; Cove Tree, N. byE. 4 E.; buoy on end of bar W.
by S. 4 S.
	At the commencement of this day the wind was strong from the south.
ward and eastward with a swell that made it necessary to take addi-
tional precautions in securing the battery. The low range of the
barometer indicated a change, which took place between 9 and 10 a. m.
by the wind hauling to the westward and finally to the W. N. W.
	Previously to sunset a three-masted steamer came down Mobile Bay
and anchor&#38; ~d near Fort Morgan. Subsequently the Pembina steamed
down within hail of the Onyler, and her commander hailed and said it
was the order of Commodore Hitchcock that we shift our berth about
midway between our present position and the Susquehanna and keep
a good lookout for the Oreto, which it was supposed would attempt to
run the blockade to-night, and in such an event this vessel and the
Oneida were to give chase. Our position was accordingly shifted about
dark, from which we took the following bearings: Fort Morgan light-
house, N. by ~T; Sand Island, N. W. 4W.; Cove Tree, N.byE.4E.;
buoy, W. ~ N.; Susquehanna, S. W. by 5. 4 mile. The night was dark
and boisterous, blowing heavily in squalls from the northward and
westward, accompanied with rain. About 3:15 a. m. (16th), the clouds
having lighted up a little, the officer on watch reported to me a vessel
passing between this vessel and the commodore, which he supposed to be
the Oreto, but could only see two masts. I ordered him to beat to quar-
ters immediately, haul I spread] fires and prepare to slip, and to burn pri-
vateCoston signal No.3. I had just retired, thinking the timehad passed
for making an attempt to escape, but was on deck, partly dressed, in a
few moments [minutes], and in a few more (the officer of the deck says
four, in his remarks in the log book), say five or six, we were turning
to pursue, having slipped with 23 pounds of steam. Owin gtothe damp,
windy weather, the gunners mate (who burned his hand severely) did
not get his signal oft until after a gunboat inside of us had made the
same signal. As we passed the Susquehanna she was answering our
signal, and subsequently made another while we were in sight, which
we did not make out. We kept the Oreto continually in sight, and at
daylight were out of sight of the land and sq uadron, having the Oreto
ahead, distant about 5 miles, under all sail and steam, with the wind
blowing a gale from ifte N; W,, ~iccompaitied with a heavy se~ 4stern

Page 31

31
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
and nearly hull down, was one of our gunboats, whose light 1 had
occasionally seen on either quarter, and supposed to be the Oneida, and
had therefore placed a light over our stern, that she might not mistake
us for the Oreto; but seeing that it was apparently the Pembina, I sig-
nalized her to abandon the chase, believing that she could be of no
assistance to me, and not wishing to weaken the blockading force.
	Under all steam and sail that I could raise, I continued the chase all
day in a combing sea that kept the decks covered with water and the
propeller racing part of the time, sometimes gaining and at others los-
ing; carried away topsail yard and had to send it down with the sail;
had no substitute; propeller got unhooked on a sea and was stopped for
a few moments, when it was lashed and not stopped again until we
arrived off the western end of Cuba. J~esort~ed to every expedient to
increase the speed of the vessel, which varied from 11~ to 12k, and
under ordinary circumstances I think would have been snificient to
have overhauled the enemy in a calm, with a light wind, or against a
head sea, or if the vessels hull and boilers had been in good condition.
	From fancying myself near promotion in the morning, I gradually
dwindled down to a court of enquiry at dark, when I lost sight of the
enemy. The only satisthetion left me, besides doing all that I could
under the circumstances, was that three of General Bankss transports
and one other vessel were saved by my proximity to the enemy during
the day. At 6: 30, being very dark, lost sight of the enemy, out con-
tinued the. search for a month longer, in various portions of the West
Indies without even meeting a rebel vessel.
	I had credited the report of an old Mobile pilot (captured on the
Antona) that the Oreto had a crew of 300 souls on board, and as it was
evident she could have no need of so many, I concluded she had taken
them on board to man another privateer; and when I learned from
Commander IRidgely, off the Cape San Antonio, that there was a
large, suspicious steamer lying at the Island of Mugeres, near the
coast of Yucatan, I concluded that these men were for her, and was
not a little disappointed when, upon my arrival there, I found she had
been already captured and carried away by Admiral Wilkes.
	In regard to the author of a letter published in one of the Northern
papers commenting upon the above, I took an early opportunity to spot
him, and to call his attention to a violation of regulations, as well as a
misrepresentation of facts. He appeared very much surprised, apolo-
gized for what he had done, and addressed me the accompanying let-
ter, besides writing one to his brother-imi-law to be published in the
same paper, and I am willing to believe did not contemplate the pub-
licity given to his letter, nor fully comprehend the degree of the offense
he was committing.
	Permit me to add that at no time previous, while Commodore Bell,
yourself; or Captain Jenkins were the senior officers commanding here,
was there any want of vigilance on the part of anyone that I could
discover, to prevent the escape of this vessel.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEo. F. EMMoNS,
Commander.
	Commodore H. B. HITCHCOCK,
U.	S. S. Susquehanna, Pensacola

Page 32

32
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
Third report of Commander Emmons, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. R. B. Onyler, of escape
of C, S. S. Florida (Oreto) from Mob~le.

U. S. S. R. iR. CUYLER,
Off Mobile Bay, March 28, 1863.
	SIR: I am in receipt of your communication of the 26th instant, in
which you call upon me for the facts connected with the escape of the
Florida from Mobile on the 16th of January last, etc. I have already
endeavored to embrace all the important facts in this case in a report
to Admiral Farragut, and subsequently in a letter to you, but I will
now recapitulate in the order of your questions:
	Question 1. Will you please state all the facts within your knowledge
connected with the escape of the Florida; also, if the general or verbal
orders of the blockade were in any way defective?
	Answer. On the afternoon of the 15th of January, 1863, a vessel answering to the
description of the Florida (Oreto) was discovered at anchor near Fort Morgan.
About sunset a verbal order was received through Lieutenant-Commander Temple,
of the Fern bina, from Commodore Hitchcock, to change the position of the Cuyler,
about half way between present position (see diagram accompanying this) ~ and the
Susquehanna (about one-half mile froni the latter), the officer adding that it was
expected the Oreto would attempt to run out during the. night, an(1 in such an event
this vessel (the Cuyier) and the Oneida were to give chase. This had been the pre-
vious understanding and written order, and all the necessary preparations had been
made to prevent the escape. The position of the Cuyler was accordingly shifted.
The night was dark and stormy, wind veering and hauling between W. and N.,
blowing in squalls accompanied with rain and mist, and a sea from the southward
that made it necessary to additionally secure the battery to prevent the guns getting
adrift. About 3:15 a. m. (16th), the clouds having lifted a little, a vessel was dis-
covered running out between this ship and the Su8quehanna. The officer of the deck
could only distinguish two masts, but presuming it to be the Florida, the private
Coston signal was niadji, cable slipped, crew called to quarters, and the vessel was
turning in pursuit (the officer of the deck says in four minutes). While the gunners
mate was preparing to burn the signal, the gunboat inside of us (Pembina) burned
the same, and the answer was burned on board of the Susquehanna; also, soon after,
another signal, which we took to be to chase. So far as I am aware the eneral
or verbal orders of the blockade were in no way defective. g

	Question 2. If the arrangement of the forces off Mobile at the time
of the escape of the Florida were defective if so, in what particular?
	Answer. I think the arrangement of the blockading forces at the time was very
judicious, and especially so on the night in question.

	Question 3. If the senior officer, Commodore iR. B. Hitchcock, has
failed at any time to do all that could be done with the forces under
his command.

	Answer. He has not, to the best of my knowledge and belief.

	Question 4. If the senior officer, Commodore IR. B. Hitchcock, has
failed in zeal, capability, or efficiency, at any time, to meet the require-
ments of his position.

	Answer. He has not, to the best of my knowledge and belief.

	Question 5. If; with the knowledge you have gained since the escape
of the Florida, it is your opinion a better arrangement could have been
made to prevent the escape of that vessel, and watch the Swash and
other outlets from the bay of Mobile.

	Answer. I think not. The arrangement of having a vessel cruising off, as in the
case of the Montqont y previously, when the force here was sufficiently large to
justify it, I have always thought an excellent precaution, both against vessels bound
out and in and trying to evade the blockade.

*Not found

Page 33

33
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
	Qnestion 6. State all and everything in which there was before, or at
the time of the escape of the Florida, any deficiencies in the orders or
acts of the senior , H. B. Hitchcock, whi~h aided the escape of
that vessel.

Answer. There were none, to the best of my knowledge and belief.

GEo. F. EMMONS,
Commander, U. S. Navy, and Commanding U. S. S. Cuyler.
	[Commodore H. B. HITCHCOCK, U. S. Navy.]

	The statements and answers to the foregoing interrogatories were
signed and sworn to before inc this 31st day of March, anno Domini
1863.
J.	H. GOLDSBOROUGH,
Captain, U. S. Navy, and Senior Naval Officer off Mobile.


Report of Lieutenant-Commander Temple, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Pembina, of the
escape of the C. S. S. Florida (Oreto) from Mobile.

U.	S. GUNBOAT PEMBINA,
Off Mobile Bar, January 16, 1863.
	SIR: Agreeably to yonr directions I have to send the following state-
ment of the transactions in relation to the Oreto:
	On yesterday (Friday morning, Jannary 16) at about 3:20 a. m. a
vessel was discovered by ns bearing E. N. E., and between ns and the
Cuyler, st~nding ont to seaward. She appeared to ns to be a two-masted
sailing vessel, and immediatcly the signal for a sail running oat of
this pass was burned, a red light was hoisted at the peak, the cable
was slipped, and we started in chase, with the men at quarters and
everything ready for instant action. Meantime the strange vessel had
been lost to sight in an E. S. B. direction, having passed between the
Cuyler and the Susquehanna; meantime also the Cuyler had bnrned the
signal for a steamer running ~ and was soon discovered to be also
underway and in chase. She ranged ahead of ns very fast, and crossed
onr bows, standing about S. S. B. while we were standing E. S. B. She
soon (within fifteen or twenty minutes) burned the signal for sail out-
side of me to the southward, and seeing no other of our vessels in chase,
we answered it, changed onr conrse accordingly, and continued the
pursnit, guided solely by the light at the Cuylers peak, as the strange
vessel was iio longer seen. We were running from that time until 7
a. m. at our greatest possible speed. The foresail and jib were set.
The wind was W. S. W., so that the square sail would not stand, and
indeed it was too strong a gale to set either this or the fore gaff-topsail.
The vessel was carrying a turn and a half of weather helm, and there-
fore the mainsail could not be set. The sea was so heavy that the
propeller was constantly thrown entirely out of the water, and raced to
an alarming degree; but still by careful and skillful attention the engi-
neer was able to keep up to an average of 83 revolutions per minute
and sometimes even 86, having been ordered to run as fast as he dared
with anything like safety to the engine. We were making 10 knots au
hour. By half past 5, however, the Cuyler had drawn ahead so far that
we had lost sight of her and her light. Still we kept on after her, and
some twenty minutes later she hoisted (apparently) the whole five
lights composing her night numbers, which we could again catch sight
of at times. Soon these also dipped below the horizon, and we ran on,
	N W ilVOL II	

Page 34

34	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

waiting for daylight, to see if we could hope to be of any service by
continuing the chase. All this time the vessel was roiling so heavily
that the guns had to be lashed down, and could not have been used at
any time, in fact, owing to our being so light. I nave never seen any
vessel labor as she (lid, and of course the sea became heavier with every
mile that we left the laud.
	As day broke two large troopships were (liscovered ahead under
close-reefed topsails standing toward us, which both the chase and the
Guyler had passed, and these last two were yet iii sight, still standing
about S. S. B. After watching theni carefully until 7 a. in., when it was
full day, it became evident that we were rapidly (lropping astern. The
Onyler I judged to be about 8 miles ahead of us, as II could just see the tops
of her smokestacks, and was consequently beyond signal distance, so
that I could not ask authority to disregard the general order of the
blockade (dated November 14) and continue the chase. The chase I
jn(lged to be about 12 miles ahead of us, as I could only see her with
time glass, and then only her upper spars. Both vessels were crowding
on more sail.
	In this state of affairs, not knowing whether the Oneida had still
further weakened the force at the bar by going in chase (according to
the l)rescribed programme), perhaps iii a wrong direction, seeing no
chance of overtaking vessels that had gained so nnmeh upon us at our
best rate of speed in three hours and a half, and not feeling authorized
to trust to some lucky accident to bring us up with them, I reluctantly
turned back (under the existing orders above referred to), while yet there
was time to regain our station on the blockade before dark. Before we
had time to wear ship both vessels were out of sight.
Respectfully,
W. G. TEMPLE,
Lieutenant- Commander.
	Commodore li. B. hITCHCOcK, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Division, Western Gu~f Blockading Squadron.



Report of Commander Parrott, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Augusta, regarding convoy of mail steamers, and enclosing corre-
spondence relating thereto.
U.S. S. AUGUSTA,
At Sea, Lat. 280 40 N., Long. 740 W., January 16, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that we arrived at Aspinwall on the
31st December, nuder orders from Acting Rear-Admiral Bailey, which
have been made known to the Department. The Ocean Queen had
already ~amled, taking her own treasure and that left by the Arid, her
master believing the insurance was forfeited by leaving over treasure
from one vessel to another. The Champion arrived on the 1st January.
Owing to a strike among the laborers and other difficulties caused by
the late great fire at Aspinwall and the floods on the railroad, we had
not finished coaling until the 6th. The America, of the Nicaragua line,
was then hourly expecting the arrival at Panama of the JzEermann, with
a large number of passengers and perhaps treasure, and I thought it
my duty to wait for her a reasonable time. But under these circum.
stances the commander of the Champion informed me of his intention
of leaviug without convoy if I considered it incuinbeiit on mue so to wait

Page 35

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	35

As she had $700,000 in treasure on board and the mails, which should
not have been exposed to the risk of capture by the rebels, I considered
it my duty to detain her.
	Two days after, the 8th, the arrival of the Hermann was telegraphed,
and the next day we left, convoying the Champion and America. The
commander of the Champion was very desirous of having convoy, and
has since asked that I would extend it as far north as possible, but he
wished, I suppose, to free himself from responsibility. Thsee vessels are
of rival lines. My position was not without its difficulties. The corre-
spondence on this subject is enclosed. I have also a protest, niade
before our consul at Panama, by the agent of the Pacific Mail Com-
pany, who, I am informed, had no concern in the matter, and one by
Captain Wilson, of the Champion, before our consul at Aspiuwall. I
hope, sir, you will approve of my course. The superintendent of the
Panama Railroad, Mr. Parker, gave us the use, without charge, of one
of the companys wharves, and was in other respects of service to us.
It was considered healthy at Aspinwall, but our short visit has given
us a few cases of light fever. In case it should be the intention of the
Department to convoy, at stated times, the treasure from Aspinwall, I
have the honor to suggest, first, that the conditions should allow the
treasure to be left over from one vessel to another; second, that there
should be an agent at Aspinwall to represent the general interests and
policy of the mail line of steamers, and to have authority (at least with
regard to the specie) over the masters, who now are each independent,
and naturally perhaps look to the interest of their own vessel alone.
We have come through Crooked Island Passage, passing near Cape
Maysi in the night, in rough weather. We have seen nothing of inter-
est on our way.
	The America left us without ceremony the night after getting through
the passes. As my coal is short, and I think the Champion now coin-
paratively safe, I shall to-day steer for Port Royal.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
E.	G. PARROTT,
Commander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES
iSecretary of the Navy.

[Enclosures.]

S.	S. CHAMPION,
/	Aspinwall, January 5, 1863.
	DEAR SIR: The conversation between us yesterday led me to suppose
that, in your opinion, the two steamers now in this port are on an equal
footing, and that the one has as much claim upon your protection as
the other, hence you could not give me an answer then whether you
would convoy my ship singly or not.
	You will please allow me to draw your attention to the facts: First,
that the only regular California line is the one to which my ship belongs.
Secondly, we carry the United States mail and all the treasure trans-
ported between the two States of New York and California, respectively.
We have now on board $700,000 in treasure, and are ready to leave
whenever you are ready to go with us. But should you consider it
incumbent on you to wait the arrival of the steamer Hermann, who
connects with the America, and can not get here till the 9th instant,
then I shall be under the necessity of leaving by myself and run the
chance of being captured by the way. You will please also to bear in
mind that while we carry everything in the way of both money an

Page 36

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

information (conveyed by the mails) to induce them to capture us, the
America carries nothing to render such a course either advisable or
profitable; furthermore, the Champions regular s~1ing day comes on
the 21st of every month, and were I to remain here till the 9th 1 would
not be able to get home in time to make my regular trip, and conse-
quently the owner of the ship would become liable to the Governinetit
for nonperformance of contract in not delivering the mails by schedule
time.
	Trusting that you will have the kindness to return to me an answer
early to-day,
I remain, respectfully, your humble servant,
DAYW WILSON,
Commander Steamer Champion.
Captain PARROTT,
U.	S. S. Augusta.


ASPINWALL, January 6, 1863.
	SIR: I have received notice from the agent of this company in San
Francisco that the steamship lliermann, connecting with this steamer,
would sail from th~t port on December 21, with 550 passengers, bound
for New York. The lliermann was advertised in the San Francisco
newspapers to take treasure at lower rates of freight than the Pacific
Mail Companys steamer, and there is great probability that some may
come by her.
	I therefore respectfully request that, if possible, I niay receive the
same convoy that you render to the steamship Champion.
Very respectfully,
JEFF. MAURY,
]Iifaster, Commanding Steamship America.
	Commander E. G. PARROTT, U. S. Navy,
Senior Officer Present, Commanding U. S. S. Augusta.


CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Aspinwall, January 6, 1863.
	SIR: I have just received a note from J. Maury, esq., commander of
steamship America, who claims convoy of his ship toward New York
from this port at the same time you convoy the steamship Champion.
Captain Maury tells me that he is informed by his agent in San
Francisco that the steamship Jiermaun, with 550 passengers, left San
Francisco for Panama on the 21st ultimo to connect with him here, and
that as said ship had advertised to take specie at less rates than the
other line there is great probability that she will bring specie on freight.
	You inform me that Captain Wilson, of the Champion, has just
expressed to you his intention to go to sea at once without convoy,
unless you can give it to him immediately, and ask my opinion as to
what course (if she should attempt to leave without convoy) you ought
to pursue. In my opinion, Captain Wilson could leave here in two or
three days, dating from this morning, and then be in ~ew York in
season to return on his regular day, or at least in a day after. I have
always considered it a prime necessity that the large amounts of specie
carried by the mail line should be protected by convoy, not so much
from commercial reasons as for political ones. In other words, I shoul

Page 37

37
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
feel it to be a great misfortune for the Government if a million of dol-
lars in coin, more or less, should fall into the hands of the rebels from
lack of proper protection. And it would be alm~st criminal, in view of
the late seizure of one of the vessels of the mail line by a rebel steamer,
to allow the $700,000 now on board the Champion to be seized, when
by waiting a day or two it can be made so completely secure.
	I therefore coincide with you in the opinion that you would be justi-
fied by the Government in detaining for a short time the steamship
Champion should she attempt to proceed to sea without convoy, and
more especially so as by waiting you would probably be able at the
same time to convoy the America on her way to the same destination
as the Champion.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
F.	W. RICE.

	Commander E. G. PARRoTT,
Commanding U. S. S. Augusta.



U.	S. S. AUGUSTA,
Aspinwall Harbor, January 6, 1863.
	SIR: The steamer America, now here, is hourly expecting the arrival
at Panama of a large number of passengers, and probably specie. Her
claims to a convoy by this vessel are not so great as yours, but I think
it my duty~to wait for her a reasonable time.
	As you, under these circumstances, have expressed to me your inten-
tioii of not waiting, but of sailing immediately without convoy, and
F as] the large amount of treasure on board your vessel, and the mails,
should not be exposed to the risk of capture by the rebels, I consider it
my duty to prevent your leaving this port without my convoy, and shall
take the responsibility of doing so.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
E.	C-. PARROTT,
Commander.
DAVID WILSON, Esq.,
Commanding Steamer Champion.



Report of Acting Lieutenant Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Vanderbilt, of cruise in search of C. S. S. Alabama (290).

U.	S. S. VANDERBILT,
Hampton !j?oads, January 17, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of this ship here last from
Fayal, having left that port on the 31st December. I last had this
honor on the 30th December. I then stated I should sail on the next
day, and having just heard that the 290 (on the 24th November) was
heard of at Martinique, I should proceed to Barbados first, and after
in such quarter as I should deem best from the information I might
receive.
	Shortly after leaving Fayal I changed my views, reasoning that the
news was six weeks old~ and that the San Jacinto was blockading her a

Page 38

38	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

the time, and also that Admiral Wilkess squadron was near ar hand,
which would certainly be known to the Alabama, so that in all Droba-
bility she might come again to her former cruisin~ ground to catch our
outwar(l-bound European ships; so I came around by the northward
and so down between Bermuda and Cape Hatteras. I have not been
able to hear anything of her, however, and as my coal was getting low
I concluded to come here and fill np, preferring this point to New York,
on account ot the ice at that port. I have experienced very severe
weather while on ~he coast, doing no damage to the ship, however.
	When I left Fayal the Kearsarge had not arrived there. The Tusca-
rora had 5~uile(l two weeks previons, 1 believe for Madeira. Nothing
was known there of the 290 or of any other piratical vessels expected
from England. The only coal at Fayal, except a small supply for the
use of the Lisbon packet, was in the hands of our consul, who, of
course, would not sell aiiy for improper purposes. I believe the Cape
Verde Islands are more likely to be used by such vessels than the
Western Islands.
	I took in at Fayal 350 tons coal, for which I have drawn on the
iDepartinent at ten days sight for *4,994.30, being the amount necessary
to put the value of it (44s. sterling) in London. Exchanged at 146.
I regret not having been empowered to draw on London a
of exchange is more favorable on that point.	s the course
As soon as. I can obtain coal I shall be ready for sea again, for any
point to which the Department may direct.
I have the hoiior to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant
C.	H. BALDWIN,
Acting Lieutenant, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Nary, Washington, D. C.



Seizure of the steamer Virginia, January 18, 1863.

Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron.

U.	S. FLAL~-STEAMER WACIIU5ETT,
Off Mugeres Island, January 18, 1863.
	SIR: I have to apprise you that I have this day taken possession of
the ~ne iron steamer, propeller, Virginia, of 800 tons, whereof John
Johnson is master, as a prize to the Wachusett and Sonoma, being
a Confederate vessel, as proved by the papers found on board, the
secession flag, and other evidence of the mnost satisfactory kind. I
have avoided any interference with international rights whatever, and
abstained from making her a prize within the accustomed limits from
the shore.
	The engineers of the Virginia having agreed to performn their duties
on board till themr arrival in the United States, I have given them to
understand that they will receive the usual wages for their services.
I have concluded to order the Virginia to Key West for adj adication.
I believe she will be found, on inspection, well fitted for a Government
transport or an armament. She is 220 feet long atid well built, and,
from her model, well calculated for speed and for maintaining the sea

Page 39

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	39

having bunkers capable of containing 400 tons of coal, with a very small
consumptioli of fael. Her propeller trices up. Under canvas she is
reported as being very fast, and is bark rigged.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the iYavy.

	P. S.I herewith enclose copies of papers found on board the
Virginia, the originals having been forwarded to the district judge or
prize commissioners at Key West.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
	Acting i~ear-Admirat, Commanding XVest India Squadron.

[Enclosures.]

HAvANA, December 12, 1862.
	DEAR SIR: In accordance with the agreement entered npon between
ourselves yesterday, I beg you will proceed at once to take possession
of the steamer Virginia on the coast of Yncatan, put her in seaworthy
condition as early as practicable, sailing thence to Mobile, Ala.
	Should you succeed in running the blockade, as I expect, you shall
report the vessel to the consignment of Messrs. II. 0. Brewer &#38; Co.,
and as soon as the return cargo is shipped upon her by those gentlememi
you shall again endeavor to run the blockade and make sail with [all]
possible dispatch and caution for this port of havana, delivering me all
papers concerning vessel and cargo. You shall look to the satisfactory
disposition of the 400 or 600 boxes claret you carry.
	Herewith an introduction to John Scott, esq., of Mobile, who will
assist you as well as consignees toward promoting my views generally.
	Relying upon your good management of the adventure, which I hope
may succeed,
	I remain, truly, yours,	FRANCIS ~. DRAIN.

	Captain JOHN JOHNSON,
Present.



BARK PROPELLER VIRGINIA,
Off Mugeres Island, December 29, 1862.
	I certify that the bark Noe-Daqny, and now the Virginia, was sold
on or about the 15th of December last to Francis P. Drain, a merchant
in Havana, and was bought by him for the purpose of emigaging in the
Confederate service in carrying supplies to the Confederate Army and
in running the blockade; that she stopped at this place for the purpose
of receiving her cargo from the Spanish schooner Pepita, now here,
and that it wa~ the intention to sail from this place for Mobile arid run
the blockade, when she was seized on the 21st of December by a party
of people from this place and Sisal upon the alleged suspicion of being
a slaver. I further certify that the schooner Pepita was loa(led with
cargo for this steamer~ which was to be pnt on board here, when she
was also seized by the same party on her arrival here the 22d of Pece

Page 40

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.


ber. I further certify that the Confederate flag was hoisted on board
this vessel for a day and a half, to which no objection was made until
the third day, when it was hauled down on the 23~ of December, and
no flag was substituted until the Mexican flag was hoisted upon the
day of the arrival of the U. S. vessels of war Wachusett and Sonoma
at this place. I further certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief,
that there is nothing in the vessels fittings or cargo upon which to base
a suspicion that she was intended to engage in the slave traffic.
JOHN JoHNSoN,
Master Virginia.
	Witness:
T.	II. STEVENS,
Commander U. S. S. Sonoma.
	I hereby certify that the foregoing statement is correct.
JOHN Roes,
Mate, Virginia.
	Witness:
T.	II. STEVENS,
Commander U. S. S. Sonoma.


Additional report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West India
Squadron, of capture of propeller Virginia.

U.	S. FLAG-STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Off iJilugeres Harbor, January 18, 1863.
	SIR: In my communication No. 4 of this date I have informed you
of the capture of the iron propeller steamer Virginia. There are some
circumstances connected with this vessel and a small schooner, the
Pepita, under Spanish colors, which it is necessary I should now
state. In ernising for the Alabama I had reason to suppose that she,
with the Agrippina, store vessel, had changed their rendezvous from
Grand Cayman Island to that of Mugeres, on the coast of Yucatan, a
well-known place where vessels intending to run the blockade, as well
as slavers, fitted out, a harbor well adapted to their purpose, and where
the notorious Walker and others fitted their filibustering expeditions.
There is no government or authority here whatever, nor is it a port
of entry or clearance, but a rendezvous for plunderers, slavers, and
pirates.
	On our arrival off the harbor we discovered the Confederate steamer
Virginia with the Spanish schooner Pepita at anchor, and immediately
anchored. The Virginia was formerly the Noe-Daquy, and has, no
doubt, been engaged in the slave trade before being purchased by the
present Confederate owners. Captain Johnson came down in the
schooner Pepita from The Havaiinah with a crew, stores, and contra-
band articles, to take charge of her, and did so, hoisting the Confed-
erate flag, the possession having been passed over to him by the officer
then in charge. At this time a Mexican, who represented himself as
an officer, Urcelay by name, without authority or any commission, as I
have since been informed, collected an armed force in order to take
possession of the vessel as a slaver, which Captain Johnson refused to
permit, although threatened by an armed force of plunderers gathered
from the island and elsewhere. This took place two days before our
arrival. Captain Johnson had hoisted the Confederate flag, which
they took down. This Urcelay removed the Spanish crew out of her

Page 41

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	41

accusing them of having been engaged in the slave trade, leaving Cap-
tain Johnson, his engineers, and part of his Confederate crew. He,
Cal)tain Johnson, became appreliensive of diffic~ities on board, and
threatening of bloodshed was made, which was represented to me by
Captain Johnson on my arrival, and a request made for me to send a
guard on board to prevent violence. This I did, and made an agree-
ment with Urcelay to hold possession of her uiitil an examination was
made relative to whether she was a slaver, of which there was no proof
whatever, and to await ten days, that the affair might be referred to
Merida, he sending some of his men on board the Spanish schooner,
the Pep ita.
	I then sailed with the Wachu8ett and Sonorna for The Havannali to
coal, and to return here within the stipulated time, which we have
done. On my arrival I found no information had been received from
Merida or action taken place, although the time had elapsed as agreed
upon. I then determined to send Commander Stevens in the Sonorna
to Sisal, the seaport of Merida, to avoid any misunderstanding, to
ascertain the cause of the delay, and what proceedings, if any, had
taken place relative to her being proved tobea slaver. The Spanish crew
had been examined and no evidence had been educed; and no further
proceedings taken that he could ascertain. In the event of such being
the case, Commander Stevens was directed to give notice to the author-
ities that I no longer felt myself bound by the agreement, the time
having expired, and should act as if the steamer was, which I had abun-
dance of evidence to prove, a Confederate vessel, fitting out with con-
traband and. intended to run the blockade, and probably, if successful,
to be fitted as a Confederate privateer, for which she is thought to be
well adapted. During our absence at havana additional testimony
was obtained of her Confederate character, and of the cargo being
shipped in the schooner Pepita for her.
	Captain Johnson complained on my arrival here that the persons left
on board of the Pepita were plundering the cargo which belonged to
his vessel and consuming the provisions intended for the Virginia, to a
great extent. I therefore gave Captain Johnson my assent to remove
what remained of it on board the Virginia, leaving the schooner, after
being discharged, in the possession of those who were on board of her.
The Pepita was entirely without the limits of her destination, having
been cleared at Havana for Cardenas, with the contraband cargo on
board. I did not consider it proper to make prize of her, as I had
proof of the cargo belonging to the Virginia. Not wishing to involve
ourselves in any international question, or make the matter more intri-
cate, I determined to leave her in the possession of those on board,
Spaniards and Mexicans.
	The Virginia being thus free from the charge of being a slaver, see-
ing there was no escape for her, Captain Johnson concluded to go
beyond the limits of the maritime jurisdiction, which I l)ermitted, when
he was captured and his vessel taken a prize to the Wachusett and
Sonoma. I think he is entitled to some remuneration for his services
in this respect, as he avoided delay on our part, and placed her beyond
any controversy as to any international rights, althongh he evidently
could not do otherwise. If I had l)ermitted him to remain here, he
would have fallen into the hands of the parties again, and have been
fitted out to run the blockade. Indeed the owner, or agent, Mr. Drain,
was down here a few days ago, with some $5,000 to bribe her off; but find-
ing the conditiou of things, he left. On the Virginia proceeding to sea

Page 42

42	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

we followed and made her capture under the Confederate flag. I ordered
a prize crew on board and have sent her to Key West for adjudication,
with all the papers found ou board.
	I herewith enclose Commander Stevenss report to me and a copy of
liis letter to the governor of Yucatan.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,

Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

&#38; eretary of the Kavy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosures.]

U.	S. S. SONOMA,
]Jfugeres Island, January 14, 1863.
	SIR: In obedience to your orders I proceeded to Sisal in the Sonoma,
and finding that the U. S. consul was residing at Merida I visited
that place in connection with the duties I was charged with by you. I
found the governor of Yucatan absent from the place, and as there
was no probability of his return for some week or fortnight, and no
one to represent him in Merida, I addressed him the communication, a
copy of which I enclose. No progress toward coming to a decision, as
far as I could learn, had been made in the case of the Virginia, though
I understood from the consul all the Spanish crew had been examined
without any evidence having l)een found by the judges to implicate
them or the vessel as connected with the slave trade.
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant,
T.	II. STEVENS,

Commander.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron.



MERIDA, January 11, 1863.
	SIR: I am instructed by Admiral Wilkes to notify you that in con.
sequence of the time stipulated with Captain Nicholas Urcelay having
elapsed, and without receiving any answer to his communication
enclosed to you through the U. S. consul at this place, although ample
time has been afforded, he can not permit himself to be any longer
bound by that agreement. This has been violated in consequence of
the depredations upon the cargo committed by the parties placed iu
charge. of the schooner Pepita by Captaiu Urcelay, which vessel con-
tained part of the supplies of the steamer Virginia and contraband
articles. For this reason, and that the crew of the Virginia, who were
before destitute, might possess the means of support, Rear-Admiral
Wilkes has thought proper to take possession of her iii order that the
same may be subject to adjudication when the Virginia shall be tried
before the prize courts of the United States.
	That the Virginia was a Confederate vessel at or before entering the
anchorage of Mugeres, Admiral Wilkes had sufficient proof before pro-
ceeding to Havana, which proof has since been made conclusive, and
as there is no shadow of evidence to prove her being engaged in the
slave trade, he considers that she was unjustly seized,and merely upon
suspicion, and is therefore improperly detained

Page 43

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	43

	A desire to treat the Mexican authorities as a friendly power and
with good will and friendship prevented his taking immediate action
in the premises. He preferred rather to wait a reasonable time, though
satisfied that there could be no evidence to warrant the detention of
the Virginia as a slaver, and this time having been afforded, and no
proof having been educed after the examination of the Spanish crew,
he can no longer refrain.
	Upon no consideration under the circumstances can the Virginia be
permitted to fall into the hands of the Confederates, or escape from
capture by us.
I have the honor to remain, your obedient servant,
T.	H. STEVENS,

Commander.
The GOVERNOR OF YUCATAN.

Letter from the Mexican minister at Washington, D. C., to the Secretary of State, transmitting

affidavits relating to the case of the steamer Virginia, alias Noe.Daquy.

[Translation.]
MEXICAN LEGATION,
Washington, February 23, 1863.
	The Mexican consul at Havana has sent me a copy of an affidavit,
made at the consulate under his charge, by sundry individuals of the
crew of the steamer Noe-Daquy, captured by the Mexican authorities of
Yucatan for being in the slave trade. If the facts be true which are
narrated in that affidavit, of which I have the honor to enclose you a
copy, the U. S. steamers Wachusett and Sonoma, which arrived at the
island of Mujeres ~Mugeres], the 28th of December last, under the orders
of Conimodore Wilkes, committed the offense of taking by force from
the jurisdiction of the Mexican tribunals a prize which was subject to
them and which they were passing upon in accordance with the laws.
	I have no doubt that if such facts should turn out to be proven, the
Government of the United States will be disposed to give to that of
Mexico all the satisfaction that may be due to it for the violation of its
right, as she has done to other nations whose maritime sovereignty has
not been respected by vessels of the United States, although Ihave not
yet received instructions from my Government upon this matter, and
probably they will not communicate with me until the receipt in Mexico
of the reports from the governor of Yucatan. I believe it to be my
duty to communicate to you at once the affidavit mentioned for the
information of the Government of the United States, reserving the
application for what may be rightly due when I shall receive instruc-
tions from the Mexican Government.
	I profit by this opportunity to renew to you, sir, the assuranc~s of my
most distinguished consideration.
M. ItOMERO.
	Hon. WILLIAM H. SEWARD.

[EnclosureTranslation.]

CONSULATE OF MEXICO AT THE HAVANNAR.

	I certify that on pages 243, 244, 245, and 246, of Book A, protocols
of this consulate, are found recorded the following documents:

CONSULATE OF MEXICO AT THE HAVANNAIT.

	On the 10th of February, 18133, there came to me at this consulate, and before me
and the nudersigned witnesses, with the aid of the interpreter of the Government,
Don Ramon de Arrastia, the following individuals belonging to the crew of th

Page 44

44	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

steamer Noe-Daquy, delivering to me a letter dated at Key West, and signed by Chief
Engineer Win. E. Hardy, of that vessel, stating at the same time and spontaneously
that they made the affidavit that all the said Machinist Hardy said in the said docu-
ment, which they placed in the hands of the consul snbscrMing, was the plain truth
as to what had occurred at the island Mujeres [Mugeres] with the steamer Noe-Daquy:
Samuel Croply, second engineer; Felipe Carvin, fireman; Francisco Harappy, fire-
man; Jos6 Maria Trias, fireman; Jos6 Colman, fireman; Pedro Juan, mariner; Luis
Cosine, mariner; Ducomte Jean, mariner; Manuel Lisboa, mariner; Caire Jacques,
mariner.

	The letter to which the individuals mentioned attest was written in
English at Key West, dated the 2d instant, and signed by the first engi-
neer of the steamer Noe-Daquy, translated into Spanish by the said
interpreter, and says literally as follows:
KEY WEST, February 2, 1868.
	SIR: I hope the following narrative will be read, because it interests you as well
as your Government. I embarked at The Havannah on the 13th December last to
join a steamer lying at the island Mujeres [Mugeres] to run the blockade at Mobile.
On arriving at the island we found the steamer in the hands of the Mexican author-
ities. The employ6s allowed some of us to go on board to repair the engines, one
of which was broken. On the 28th December the U. S. steamers Wachusett and Sonoma
came into port, under command of Admiral Wilkes, and on the 29th he sent on board
a lieutenant and 15 men, who took possession of the vessel. We still went on work-
ing, believing she was a Mexican prize, and that we would be remunerated for our
labor. On the 9th January, 1863, the Sonoina went to Sisal. Upon her return she
brought word that the Mexican authorities at Merida had considered the vessel
(Noe-Daquy, alias Virginia) as a slaver. On the 18th January our captain, acting
under the orders of Admiral Wilkes, told me to set the engine going, which I did,
and while I was below obeying his orders lie hoisted the banner of the Confederate
States, and on seeingthis I got the engines ready (before the anchor was weighed),
when immediately they were set in motion by the lieutenant of marines. In fine,
the United St~tes seamen got her out of port anyway, weighed anchor, appointed
firemen, and the lieutenant acted as engineer. When she was at a short distance
from land they took possession of her in the following ridiculous way:
	Officer of the Sonoma. What bark is that ~
	Captain of the Noe-Daquy. The Confederate steamer Virginia.
	Then the Wachusett fired a cannon shot and sent the crew on board as prize, and
because we, the crew of the Noe-Daquy, did not choose to work under the Confed-
erate banner, nor take part in the infamous plan for stealing the vessel, and for refus-
ing to bring her to this port, we were taken on board the steamers Waehusett and
Sonoma and treated as traitors, in which condition we now are, and we ask you to
act at once in this matter, because the bark is valued at $100,000 and there are nine-
teen of the crew who will corroborate all aforesaid. I forgot to say the cargo of the
schooner was taken on board the steamer by express order of Admiral Wilkes.
I am, respectfully,
WILLIAM E. HARDY,
Engineer.
	I certify what precedes is a faithful translation of the original in English, which I
have marked. In faith whereof I place at foot my signature and seal at The
Havannah, the 10th February, 1863.
RAMON DR ARRASTIA,
Interpreter for the Public and the Government.

	Seal. thereto bearing interpretation for the public and the Govern-
ment, signed, Samuel (Jroply for Felipe Carvin, Francisco ilarappy,
Jos6 Colmen, Pedro Juan, Luis C osme, Manuel Lisboa, and Caire
Jacques, which individuals do not know how to write, and he does it at
their request. Samuel Croply, signed; Jos6 Maria Trias, signed; Alex.
McIntosh, signed by Michael Hyland; Alex. McIntosh, signed as
witness; A. C. Munos, signed as witness; A. Hartman.
IRAMON S. DJAz,
Consul of Mexico.
HABANA, Febr~~ary 11, 1863.
	A copy.
ROMERO.
WASHINGToN, February 23, 1863

Page 45

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	45

Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes,
U.	S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron~ stating instructions
given by the Department to various United States vessels.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 20, 1863.

	SIR:	The U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp, Acting Volunteer Lieutenant
H.	S. Eytinge, is about to sail from New York iu search of the 290 and
other piratical cruisers. Her instructions are to touch at St. Thomas,
and if she meets with you to report as a part of your squadron; if not,
she is to proceed through the Windward Islands and along the coast
of South America. You are authorized to consider her as attached to
your squadron and to issue instructions and send them to her at St.
Thomas. The U. S. S. Alabama, Commander E. T. Nichols, may also
remain in your squadron. She sailed from Boston January 1 for St.
Thomas, in search of the 290. The San Jacinto is intended as the flag-
ship of Acting Hear-Admiral Bailey, who has been directed to retain
her on her arrival at Key West. The Connecticut, Commander George
H. Cooper, is on special service convoying the treasure steamers from
Aspinwall westwar(l.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Hear-Admiral CHAS. WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron, Turtlf Harbor.



Order from the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Volunteer Lieutenant
Eytinge, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp, to cruise
in West Indies in search of C. S. S. Alabama (290) and other Confed-
erate vessels.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 20, 1863.
	SIR:	Proceed with the U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp under your com-
mand to the West Indies in search of the 290 or other piratical vessels
that may be cruising in that quarter. You will first touch at St.
Thomas, and if Acting Hear-Admiral Wilkes is there report to him for
instructions as a part of the squadron nuder his command. If you do
not meet him shape your course through the Windward Islands and
along the northeast coast of South America, unless you should receive
reliable information of the presence of privateers in other localities
which would justify your going in pursuit thereof~ When necessary to
replenish your supply of provisions return to New York. Communicate
with the Department when opportaiiity olThrs.
	Two suspicious vessels have recently refitted at St. Thomas, the Dixie
and the Retribution. There seems to be but little doubt that the object
of the latter is to prey upon our commerce, and perhaps time former has
a similar purpose. There is also reason to believe there is another
steamer, very much like the 290, cruising in the West Indies for pirat-
ical purposes. She coaled at the Island of Blanquilla from a schooner
and left there on the evening of the 14th ultimo. She gave her miame
as the Alabama, or 290, and the description answers to her. But there
are other circumstances leading to the conclusion that it could not have
been the Alabama. It mmvy have been the Oreto, which, it was reported,
had escaped from Mobile. She is almost a sister ship to the Alabama,
except that she has two smokestacks and the Alabama only one

Page 46

46	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION,

	The Retribution is described as a small black schooner of 150 tons,
formerly a steamer, from which fact her masts are set wide apart, sails
old and dark, bow perpendicular and rather inclining in, as is the case
with our tugboats. The wood filling up the space which the propeller
occupied can be easily discerned. The Dixie, a Danish schooner, was
purchased by the master of the Retribution, is a small black vessel of
130 to 150 tons.
	Whilst your special object will be the search of these piratical cruis-
ers, you will exercise vigilance iii other cases, seizing vessels engaged
in carrying contraband of war to the insurgents, but at all times respect-
ing neutral rights and neutral waters.
	Transmitted herewith is a copy of the circular letter* issued by the
Department on the 18th of August last for the guidance of our cruisers;
also some receiit general orders.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Volunteer Lieut. H. S. EYTINGE, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp, New York.


Order from Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
india Squadron, to Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding U.
S. S. Sono~~a,to proceed to Key West, Plc.

FLAG-STEAMER WACIIUSETT,
Off Cape San Antonio, January 20, 1863.
	SIR: You will proceed with the Sonoma to Key West, where you will
fill up with coal, with as little delay as possible, and then call at The
Havannah, where you will find me or orders. Should the Santiago de
Cuba be at Key West, you will direct Commander iRidgely to repair to
Havana as soon as possible, where he will fiumd me or orders. You will
bring with you to Havana the prize officers and crew of the Virginia,
unless their services are further required on board that vessel.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, (Jommanding West India Squadron.
Commander T. H. STEVENS,
Commanding Steamer Sonoma, West India Squadron.


Order from Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Commander Emmons, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. S. R. R. Cuyler, to cruise in West Indies in search of Confederate
cruisers.

JANUARY 21, 1863.
	SIR: Unable to continue the cruise of this steamer and the Sonoma
for want of coal and repairs, I deem it necessary to order you to accoin-
pany the Santiago de Cuba to the island of Grand Cayman, believing
that the Oreto, as well as the Alabama, intend to make it a rendezvous
for their supplies. The place is well suited for their operations in these
seas.

See Yol, I, p~ 417

Page 47

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	47

	I have directed Commander Rid gely to supply you with coal, and to
follow the route from Grand Cayman to Cienfuegos, or any information
he received at the Grand Cayman of the whereaboi~s of either of these
vessels. You will accompany him for the purpose of looking into such
places. It is not deemed that this will occupy you over five days until
you can return to this cape, and thence to your station or coaling at
Key West
	You will exhibit this order to Admiral Farragut, which will relieve
you from the responsibility of making this deviation from your direct
return to your station off Mobile.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander GEO. F. EMMONS, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Steamer R. P. Cuyler.



Letter from U. S. consul-general at Havana, Cuba, to the Secretary of
State, reporting the arrival of C. S. S. Florida in that port.

U.	S. CONSULATE-GENERAL,
flavana, January 21, 1863.
	SIR: I have to inform you that the steamer Florida, Captain Maffltt,
having escaped from the blockading fleet off Mobile on the night of
Friday, the 16th instant, and having burned the American brig Esteile,
of New York, and from Santa Cruz, Cuba, bound to Boston, laden with
sugar, etc., on the 19th instant off Tortugas, arrived here at 8 p. m.
yesterday. I enclose herewith a statement of the facts connected with
the burning of the brig, made by her master, Mr. John Brown, and cor-
roborated by the officers and crew. I also have the honor to enclose a
communication of mine to the captain-general of the island, stating the
fact, as believed by Captain Brown, that the cargo of his vessel was
Spanish property; also asking his attention to the condition of the crew
as prisoners on parole in this port, etc.
	The steamer Reaney, of quartermasters department at Key West,
arriving here opportunely this morning, I immediately dispatched her
to Admiral Bailey with the above intelligence. We have no American
man-of-war in this port, nor do I know where any of the squadron of
Admiral Wilkes is to be found. When last here I endeavored to
impress upon him the great necessity of having a vessel of war here
all- the time, and I have also made tIme same suggestion to the admiral
commanding at Key West. It is to be regretted that such a course has
not been adopted, as, owing to this fact, we shall probably have to
record the second escape of the Florida from Havana.
	The Florida is a bark-rigged -propeller, quite fast under steam and
canvas; has two smokestacks fore and aft of each other,close together;
has a battery of four 42s or 68s of a side, and two large pivot guns.
Her crew consists of 135 men; she is commanded by J. N. Maffltt, late
U. S. Navy; is a wooden vessel of about 1,500 tomis. At the present
moment she is coaling and will probably sail immediately after she
completes it, unless this Government takes some action in regard
to her.
	I shall do all in my power to serve our interests in this case, but you
are aware that they have multiplied lately until a consul can do littl

Page 48

48	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

else than watch the movements of these vessels in foreign ports for the
purpose of giving information to our own inen-ofwar. The authorities
take their own course, but I have no reason as y%t to believe that this
vessel will receive any different treatment than that which she received
from the Government of the predecessor of his present Excellency on
her previous visit. It will be proper to add that she was admitted into
the harbor after dark, contrary to the custom of the port, while our
vessels, are not allowed to send a boat in from the entrance for the pur-
pose of communicating with me.
I write in haste for the mail, and remain, ~vith great respect,
Your obedient servant,
	It. W. SHUFELDT,
	Hon. W. II. SEWARD,	[Gonsul.General.]
AS1ecretary of &#38; ate.

	P.	S.I shall try to enforce the twenty-four-hour rule, dating from
the sailing of the Reaney at this 11 a. in., in order to get time for any of
our men-of war to reach here from Key West.
	It.W.S.
[Enclosure.]

CONSULATE-GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
	Havana, Cuba.
	On the day of the date hereof, before me, Robert W. Sbufeldt, consul-
general of the United States of America for Havana and the dependen-
cies thereot~ personally caine and appeared John Brown, master of the
brig listelle, of New York, who, being by me sworn according to law,
solemnly declared that he sailed in and with the said brig from Santa
Cruz, Cuba, on the 13th of January, instant, laden with sugar, honey,
and molasses bound to Boston; that the cargo was shipped by Venecia,
Rodriguez &#38; Co., of Mauzanillo, Spanish subjects, and that he believes
the property to be Spanish; it was consigned to Homer &#38; Spragile;
that on the 19th, at about 3 p. in., he saw a bark, with American col-
ors flying, bearing with a full press of canvas and steam to wind-
ward; the distance seemed to be 6 miles; it was blowing a heavy gale
of wind; the Estelle was under close-reefed sails off the Tortugas, lati-
tude 230 34, longitude 83~ 50. The stranger fired a gun, hauled down
the American. flag and hoisted the Confederate, came to under the brigs
stern, and lowered her boats, which soon were alongside the brig. Offi-
cers and men came on board and informed this deponent that the brig
was a prize to the Confederate steamer Florida, Captain Maffitt; that
he, this deponent, and his officers and crew were ordered to pack their
things and proceed onboard the Florida in one of the Confederate boats,
which they did. The Confederates then took the brigs sails, spare
rigging, and fore-topsail yard on board the steamer, and then fired the
brig fore and aft; that the Florida, after this, steered E. S. E., an(l last
evening (20th), at about 8, came into the harbor of havana; that prior
to entering the port this deponent and all his crew were put on parole
not to inform against the Florida as to her armament and force nor to
take up arms against the Confederate States until they are regularly
exchanged; that Captain Ma{hitt also took possession of. the chronom-
eter, which had been hired from Willard &#38; Co., of Boston; that all
the personal property of deponent and his crew was returned to them,
and they were kindly treated while on board the Florida.
JOHN BROWN

Page 49

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	49

	In testimony whereof the said appearer has hereto signed his name,
and I, the said consnl-general, have hereunto set my hand and affixed
the seal of my office at Havana, this 21st day of J~uiuary, 1863.
	[L. S.]	it. W. SHUFELDT,
	Consul- General.

	We, the undersigned, officers and crew of the late brig Estelic, of New
York, do solemnly and truly swear that the facts set forth in the fore-
going affidavit of Captain John Brown, master of the said brig, are, in
all respects, true.
ZENROW M. FICKETT, Mate.
WILLIAM II. WALLACE, Second Mate.
SAMUEL LINDSEY, Steward.
COFFIN WHILTEN.
STILLMAN S. WALLACE.
ALPHONSO PARKER.
BENJAMIN A. COETHELL.

Sworn to and subscribed before me this 21st day of January, 1863.
	[L.s.]	It. W. SIIUFELDT,
	Consul. General.


Letter from U. S. consul-general at Havana, Cuba, to the Secretary of
State, reporting the escape of C. S. S. Florida from that port.
	U. S. CON8ULATE-GENERAL,
Havana, January 2-1, 1863.
	SIR: Continning the subject of my former dispatches, Nos. 6 and 7,
I have the honor to inform you that notwithstanding my representa-
tions to this Government the Confederate steamer Florida was per-
mitted to leave this Port in less than twenty-four hours after the
departure of our own steamer, the Feeney. The Florida sailed at 6
a. m. of the 22d instant, steerin~ to the eastward and keeping close in
with the coast of Cuba. At 9 a. m. she attempted to board the Amer-
ican bark La Coquena, from Portland, but the master of that vessel,
with great presence of mind, bore up immediately for the beach, to
which he succeeded in getting so near that the Florida desisted. At
noon the American brig Windward, loaded with molasses, was burned
oft Matanzas, and the master and crew sent into that port. At 9 p.m.
I received intelligence that three American vessels had been destroyed
off the port of Cardenas.
	The course which the Florida thus far seems to have adopted in her
piratical career has been to keep within the neutral waters of Cuba,
and, discovering American vessels outside of her, to run beyond the
marine league only for the purposes of destruction. In this way the
whole island may be circumnavigated and that 1)lea of neutrality of
Spanish waters, for a violation of which Spain has so recently and so
earnestly expostulated with our Government in the ease of the Blanche,
may and will become her greatest protection. I am informed by our
consul at Matanzas that the cargo of the Windward was on Spanish
account.
	At 6:30 p. m. of the same day Admiral Wilkes arrived here in the
Wachusett, but being aft&#38; sunset was not permitted to pass the guard
N W RvOL II 

Page 50

50	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

ship, on which account he could not land or obtain any information or
coal until the following morning, although the Florida arrived at 8
p. m. of the evening previous and, as I have beeii~ informed, was imme-
diately allowed to proceed to her anchorage.
	On the morning of the 23d, the dispatch boat Reaney returned from
Key West and conveyed a request from Admiral Bailey that I would
give all the information in my power to the commander of the U. S. S.
Oneida concerning the Florida. At noon the Oneida appeared off the
port. At 1 p. m. the Reaney, having her mails, etc., on board, started
for Key West, Admiral Wilkes directing the captain to deliver to the
Oneida an order to enter The llavannah. The Reaney met the Oneida
about 24 miles from the mouth of the harbor, gave the order, and
proceeded on her voyage. When about 6 or 8 miles from Havana,
she was brought to peremptorily by a Spanish steam frigate which,
in order to do so, fired as many as three shots at her in quick succes-
sion, preceded, however, by a blank cartridge, which the captain says
he took to be the signal for a pilot. The Reaney was boarded and
the captain informed, as near as [he] could understand the Spanish
language, that he shonld not communicate with another vessel so near
the harbor (the communication, you will observe, occurring between
two vessels of the United States and at least 24 miles from shore).
After the Spanish boat left the Reaney, the master, innocent of any
offense, and uncertain what to do, finally concluded to return again to
Havana and report himself to me. I advised him to proceed to sea
again, and if brought to in like manner, and detained, to haul down
his flag; oi4ierwise, to proceed on his voyage. I told him that I pre-
sumed that some mistake had been made, as I could not imagine what
right a Spanish man-of-war would have to prevent the Reaney from
communicating with the Oneida, or to stop her for so doing after she
was upon the high seas. She accordingly sailed, and I have not since
heard from her. The Oneida also sailed again in pursuit of the Florida.
	In order to get information of the Florida to our two steamers, the
&#38; mntiago de Cuba and R. 1i~. Cuyler, expected at Cienfuegos, I endeav-
ored to transmit the following telegram to our consular agent:
Inform the commanders of the Santiago de Cuba and R 1?. Cuyler to go round Point
Maysi and await orders off the light-house of Lobos. Answer immediately by tele-
graph to consul-general here.
CHARLES WILKES.
	The transmission was stopped and the telegram retained by order of
the captain-general for reasons which he says he will give in writing.
	The preceding I believe to be a truthful statement of the circum-
stances connected with the presence of the Florida in these waters,
and in consequence of them I am forced to the conviction that, owing
to the partiality shown her, she, in all probability, owes her escape
from capture, and to the protection which she has sought in the neutral
waters of Cuba we are so far, to a great extent, indebted for the terri-
ble destruction of our commerce which that vessel has effected.
	I am also of the opinion that the obstacles thrown in the way of our
vessels of war and the firing into the dispatch boat Reaney were
evidences of unfriendly feeling, and that the latter was insulting in its
character. I do not deem it my l)rovince to do more than report these
facts to you, and shall not write to this Government upon this subject
again unless written to.
	The steamer Florida received 88 tons of Welsh coal, ten days supply,
and Mr. Chandler imparts the information, which he considers reliable

Page 51

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	51

as coming from an engineer of that vessel, that after destroying all the
property she can near Cuba she intends to run the blockade at Charles-
ton. The Wachusett sailed this morning. The ~an Jacinto is also
probably after the Florida.
I am, sir, with great respect, your obedient servant,
	11. W. SHUFELDT,
	Hon. Wi~i. H. SEWARD,	[Consul-General.]
Secretary of State.

	P.	S.One of the vessels destroyed oft Cardenas proves to have been
the Corns Ann, of Machias, Me., from Philadelphia, with box and hogs-
head shooks, Capt. F. A. Small. She was burned between Cay Piedras
and Cay Mono, in a channel only 1 mile wide, leading into the har-
bor of Cardenas. The wreck afterwards drifted on shore and the crew
came in a boat.
RW.S.


Instructions of Acting Rear-Admiral Bailey, U. S. Navy, commanding
Eastern Gu~f Blockading Squadron, to Acting Volunteer Lieutenant
(avendy, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. bark Gemsbok, in case of the
appearance of C. S. S. Alabama or Florida.

FLAGSHIP ST. LAWRENCE,
Key West, January 21, 1863.
	SIR:	Jn case the Alabama or Florida, rebel cruisers, should make
their appearance and go into Turtle Harbor, destroy your signal books
and all communications for Admiral Wilkes before engaging them.
After which you will do yonr utmost to destroy or capture them.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
T.	BAILEY,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding Eastern Gulf Squadron.
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant EDWARD CAVENDY,
Bark Gemsbok.



Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Commander Ridgely, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. S. Santiago de Cuba, regarding the search for the C. S. steamers
Alabama and Florida.

FLAG-STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Off Cape San Antonio, Cuba, January 21, 1863.
	SIR:	You will proceed, in company with the R. R. Cuyler, to the
Grand Cayman, about 250 miles from here, to the eastward, where I
deem it most likely you may see or hear something of the Alabama or
Oreto, a place well suited for a rendezvous and where supplies can be
had for crews. Should you get information of either of the above
vessels at any point not far distant you will pursue them as long as
you have the ability to do so, and, if it is in your power, touch off
Cienfuegos and communicate with me or the consul-general at Th

Page 52

52	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Havannab, by telegraph. You will return along the south reef of this
island to this i)oint, looking into any of the anchorages that may prove
feasible.
	The	B. A. Cuyler will remain in company until you repass this cape.
I am, very respectfully, yonr obedient servant,
CHAS. WILKES,

	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander D. B. IhDGELY,
Comdg. Steamer Santiago de Cuba, West india Squadron.

	When necessary to fill up with coal you will repair to The Havannah,
where you [will] find me, or orders.



Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Bailey, U. S. Navy, commanding Eastern
Gulf Blockading ~qn~d~~on,to Commander Ronekendorif, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. San Jacinto, to proceed to Havana, Cuba, sn
search of C. S. S. Florida.
U.	S. FLAGSHIP ST. LAWRENCE,
Ke4 West, January 22, 1863.
	SIR:	I have received reliable information that the rebel steamer
Oreto, or Florida, is in Havana taking in coal. You will therefore get
your vessel in readiness as soon as possible, proceed off Havana, com-
municate with Captain Hazard, of the Oneida, who has directions to
send the ariiy steam tugboat Reaney in the harbor to ascertain from
our consul whether the Oreto is still there, in which case you will remain
and use all precautions to prevent her escape. If you find she has
gone you will consult with Captain Hazard as to the course you will
each pursue in chase. The consul will probably seiid you all the infor-
ination lie has as to her probable destination, and you must use your
own j udginent in coniiectiou with this information to insure her cap-
ture,if possible. I desire that you will take a different course from the
Oneida in the pursuit to increase the chances of falling in with her, but
this part of the order I will leave to your own discretion.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully. your obedient servant,
THEODORUS BAILEY,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding Eastern Gulf Squadron.
Commander W~. IIONCKENDORFF,
Commanding U. S. Steam Sloop San Jacinto.


Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Captain Hazard, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Oneida.
FLAG-STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Harbor of Havana, January 23, 1863.
	SIR:	You will repair to this harbor with the Oneida. I have impor-
tant communications to make to you.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHAS. WILKES,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commandi~~g West India Squadronq
Captain S. F. HAZARD,
Commanding U. S. S. Oneida

Page 53

OPERATIONS OV THE CRUISERSUNION.
53
Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Captain Hazard, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Oneida, to cruise in search of U. S. S. Florida (Oweto).

U.	S. S. WACHUSETT,
At The Havannah, January 23, 1863.
	Sin: You will proceed immediately off Cardenas, where the Oreto
has been seen. It is reported that she destroyed three vessels last
evening. I need not give you a description of her, except she is white-
washed, and has two sniokestacks, and bark rigged. She will probably
be in that neighborhood. I shall leave in the Waehusett this evening
to join the chase of her, and will direct the San Jacinto, which vessel
is hourly expected, to come off here to the same duty. Wherever she
may be found you are instructed to capture or destroy her.
	I trust you have coal enough for a few days. You will, at any rate,
use to your last ton in this search, and may rely upon my giving you
enough to bring you into port. You may be aware that we have a coal
depot at Turtle Harbor, close by the Carysfort light-house, where, in
case I do not meet you, you may obtain a supply, if you actually need
it.	I do not wish you to anchor in this harbor, but to proceed to sea
with all possible dispatch. I shall be at the consuls office until 4
oclock, and will themi give you further information as to your proceed-
ings; but if time does not admit of your returning to sea before night-
fall, you will not regard this as cause of your detention, a~ you are
aware, probably, that the rules of this port do not permit a vessel to
go to sea after sunset.
	Hoping to see you soon,
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES.
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.

	Captain S. F. HAzARD, U. S. Navy,

Commanding Steamer Oneida.



Order of Acting Rear-Admired Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
india Squad~-on,to Commander Rouckendorif, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. S. San Jacin to.

FLAG-STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Harbor qf havana, January 23, 1863.
	SIR: You will repair to this harbor with the vessel under your com-
mand. I have important communications to make to you.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servamit,
[CHARLES WILKES,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.

	Commander WM. IRONCKENDORFF, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Steamer San Jacinto

Page 54

54	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S.
S. Sonoma.
FLAG-STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Harbor of Havana, January 23, 1863.
	SIR:	You will use all possible dispatch in coaling and repairing the
Sonoma, and have her ready br sea at the earliest moment.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

[CHARLES WILKES,]
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
	Commander T. II. STEVENS,
Commanding Steamer Sonoma, West India Squadron.



Letter from Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to the Secretary of the Navy, deploring the inadequate
force under his command.

FLAG-STEAMER WACIIUSETT,
Harbor of Havana, January 23, 1863.
	SIR:	I have yours of December 15* in reply to two of mine of the 24th
and 25th November. I am ftilly aware that your expressed design, in
the operations of the vessels under my command, was to capture the
piratical cruisers and vessels carrying contraband, and to interrupt and
break up the illicit traffic and nefarious schemes to aid the insurgents
which had existed for a long time in the neighborhood of Nassau. I
am now informed that the first great and important duty devolving
upon me is the capture or destruction of the Alabama (290), the Oreto
(or Florida), and similar cruisers of a semipiratical character that are
depredating on our commerce. It was for this especial purpose that I
wrote you my letter of the 25th November, wherein I informed you that
my force was insufficient to effectually carry out your wishes in respect
to these piratical vessels. I had not the least doubt that after the Ala-
bama had finished her depredations in the Atlantic she would resort
to these seas for the winter and endeavor to captnre our California
mails and treasure. I therefore deemed it to be my duty to apprise the
Department that my force would not be sufficient to accomplish the
objevt, weakened, as it had been, by the withdrawal of the Dacotah
Gimarron, and Vanderbilt.
	The destruction of the Alabama I did not conceive to be secondary to
the blockade, or any other of the operations in which the Navy was or
would be engaged, and I therefore felt confident that my appeals would
be promptly acceded to and a large force of efficient vessels sent to me.
Your letter of the 15th of December, to which this is in reply, states
that it was the wish of the Department to increase the force at every
point had it men and ships, but omits saying anything on the subject
of my special command, of which so much is expected. I beg leave now
to take the liberty to offer some remarks on the tenor of your letter. I
am aware that the whole country is looking with the greatest solicitude
for the capture or destruction of the Alabama, but with an inefficient
force, both as to numbers and description of vessels (those I have being
intended for river service almost exclusively), it is utterly impossible for
you or the country to expect that it can be accompliahed. It can not be

See Vol. I, p. 587

Page 55

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	55


done with my vessels by chase; it may be accomplished by good luck
or chance. If my force had been increased, when requested, with suit-
able vessels it would have been a certainty. Wi~i the means at my
disposal no plan could be adopted by which I could insure the Depart-
ment or promise myself success. With a larger force the object would
have been, and will be, attained without difficulty. I say this with a
steadfast belief in the accomplishment of this desirable and devoutly
wished-for object. If I had even the force that the Department has sent
to cruise singly among the weather islands of these seas I could have
formed plans for concert of action that would have resulted in success,
of which I have repeatedly informed the Department and pledged
myself.
	The condition of this steamer is very defective, as I have heretofore
stated, especially in my letter enclosing the report of survey on her
boilers, on which there is no dependence to be l)laced whatever. This
I reported to you before I left Washington, but as you deemed it nec-
essary, I sailed, and have realized my apprehensions most fully.
	The three gunboats were ill-adapted to the service, notwithstanding
they have been used and navigated by the intelligence and energy of
their commanders, to my surprise and admiration, encountering all
kinds of weather and heavy seas, and yet have, at great hazard,
effected the object for which they were specially detailed, and which
was a part of your instructionsto intercept and prevent the escape of
contraband vessels. These facts I have reported to the Department,
and I am surprised to learn from you that no important results attend
our presence4 in the vicinity of Nassau. The steamers that have been
plying to and from the coast, running the blockade when they saw fit,
have been laid up in Nassau and The llavannah. None have been into
Cardenas or Matauzas or elsewhere in this island, and the letter of the
American consul at Nassau, which I forwarded to you, fully states the
facts which our services have rendered in breaking up the trade of
Nassau. Hence the great abuse lavished upon me, which I have taken
as praise, as it is the strongest proof that could be offered of the effi-
ciency of the squadron, though composed of such a few vessels.
	it is true, few captures have been made, and it could not be expected
that any would be made when this trade in contraband had been
stopped, although large storehouses were filled with it.
	It seems to me somewhat remarkable that you should, under the cir-
cumstances, expect captures to be made, and I think, on reflection, you
must do us the justice to believe we have done our duty, although we
have not filled our pockets. Nor should it surprise you, or anyone,
that a few vessels should have escaped our vigilance when you are
aware how many have run the blockade, with a large number of efficient
vessels guarding the entrances to Mobile and Charleston harbors. I
do not wish, however, to draw any comparisons with those engaged on
the blockade of those places, as I know how difficult it is to avoid the
escape of any vessels through the blockading fleet. Since the intro-
duction of steam, the blockade system has entirely changed. The plan
at present pursued is, in my judgment, entirely wrong; but in this
many may differ from me. I can only advance it as an opinion, and
the few months experience I have had has satisfied me that it is correct.
	The breaking up of the contraband trade is more readily accomplished
by intimidation and the fear of loss of vessels and cargoes from the
apparent and not real difficulties that blockade runners have to
encounter

Page 56

56	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I have specially avoided visiting English ports. I have given no
canse for the excitement against me by the colonial authorities, except
in carrying out your orders to interrupt, intercep~ and capture contra-
band vessels. Wherever I have had intercourse with British naval
officers it has been most cordial and pleasant. Those who have not
sought my acquaintance of course I have not had anything to do with;
but no remarks or actions of mine have afforded any ground for the
misrepresentations which have appeared in the public prints, and I had
hoped that the Department would have disregarded them as I do. If
the British authorities take sides with the insurgents I have not been
the cause, and their sympathies, as well as hate, I hold in equal con-
tempt. The only effect upon me is to cause me more deeply to uphold
our flag and the interests of the Union cause.
	It is needless for me to add that I have nothing further to say upon
the subject. You were fully and timely advised of the condition of the
squadron and the motive I have for desiring an increase of force. You
have not thought proper to send it to me; and although my views can
not be carried out, I shall not fail to use the force I have to the best
advantage.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GiDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
india Squadron, regarding C. S. steamers Alabama and Florida.

FLAG-STEAMER WACHIJSETT,
Havana, January 24, 1863.
	SIR:	Your letter of January 10, relative to a piratical steamer in the
West Indies, has been received. In my letter from The llavannah,
January 2, I gave you the information I possessed relative to the Ala-
bama, obtained through the Agrippina, from which vessel she took 200
tons of coal at Blanquilla. The times all correspond to her coaling,
capturing the Arid off Cape Maysi, and being at the Grand Cayman.
I do not believe that, as yet, there is any other privateer out except
the Oreto, recently escaped from Mobile, which vessel we are now in
hot pursuit of.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 57

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	57


Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Commander Ridgely, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S.
S. Santiago de Cuba.
FLAG-STEAMER WACHIJSETT,
Harbor of Havana, January 24, 1863.
	SIR:	You will, as soon as you fill lip with coal, repair with all speed
to the neighborhood of the Hole in the Wall, your old station, where
you will cruise until further orders.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[CHARLES WILKES,]
	Acting Rear-Admiral. Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander D. B. IIIDGELY, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Steamer Santiago de Cuba, West India Squadron.


Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Commander Ronekendorif, U. S. N~tvy, commanding
U. S. S. San Jacinto.
FLAG-STEAMER WACIIUSETT,
Off Havana, January 24, 1863.
	SIR:	You will, with the vessel under your command, accompany this
ship to the vicinity of Cardenas. In case of separation, which you
must avoid, you will meet me near Cardenas light.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[CHARLES WILKES,]
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander W. RONCKENDORFF, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Steamer San Jacinto.


Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Sqitadron, to Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S.
S. Sonoma.
FLAG-STEAMER WACHUSETT,
harbor qf flavana, January 24, 1863.
	SIR:	You will, with all possible dispatch, repair with the Sonoma
to Cardenas, off which harbor you will meet me or the Oneida, or the
San Jacinto. It is not intended that you should enter the harbor of
Cardenas.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[CHARLES WILKES,]
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander T. H. STEvENS, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Steamer Sonoma, West India Squadron.


Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Commander Rouckendorif, U. S. Navy, command-
ing U. S. S. San Jacinto, to cruise for the interception of vessels.

FLAG-STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Off Cardenas, January 25, 1863.
	SIR:	You will proceed to the outer anchorage at Cardenas and there
await the arrival of the Sonoma, Commander Stevens. On his arriva

Page 58

58	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

you will, with the Sonorna in company, proceed tothe.east end of Cay
Sal, look into Anguilla, and then cruise between that point, across the
Santaren Channel, to the Great Bank, stretching across the Nicholas
Channel, to the coast of Cuba, the object being to intercept any ves-
sels, especially the Oreto, that may pass through these channels.
	I need not urge you to keep a bright lookout, and so dispose of the
vessels as to cover the greatest space, never losing sight of each other.
Let nothing escape you, and procure all the information you can by
boarding or otherwise.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Coi	[CHARLES WILKES,]
nmanding West india Squadron.
	Commander W. IIONCKENDORFF, U. S. Navy,
Commanding AS~teamer San Jacinto.



Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S.
S. Sonoma, regarding cruise.

FLA~-STEMIER WACHUSETT
Off Cardenas, January 25, 1863.
	SIR: You will proceed with the Sonoma, in company with the San
Jacinto, to the east end of Cay Sal. After looking into Anguilla you
will, with the San Jacinto, cruise in the channels Santaren and Nicho-
las, between Cay Sal and the Great Bank and Cuba, where you will
operate until my arrival, which will be on Wednesday, where I shall
expect to be, and meet you, off Anguilla.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[CHARLES WILKES,]
Acting 1?ear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
	Commander T. H. STEVENS, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Steamer Sonoma, West India Squadron.



Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander ]JlicDougal, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Wyoming, to cruise in search of C. S. S. Alabama
in the path of American merchantmen to and from China.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 26, 1863.
	SIR: Information has doubtless reached you some time since of the
depredations committed on our commerce by the piratical steamer
Alabama, or 290, commanded by Raphael Semmes, formerly of the U. S.
Navy.
	Nothing reliable of the movements of the Alabama has been received
since she captured the California steamer Arid, off the east end of Cuba,
December 7, and released her on the 9th, near Kingston, Jamaica. It
is not improbable that, closely pursued by our vessels in the West Indies,
she will seek another field for her operations, and may go to the East
Indies. In that event the most promising point for her piracy would
be the Strait of Sunda, through which onr merchantmen pass to and
from China, and she doubtless would go there. That locality should

Page 59

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	59


therefore, be looked after, and the Department directs you to proceed
thither at once. You must be governed in your duration there by the
intelligence you may receive of the movements of4he Alabama. hf she
continues in this hemisphere it will not be necessary for you to remain
there unless other piratical craft are put afloat and should cruise in that
direction.
	The U. S. S. Vanderbilt will probably proceed from here down the
coast of Brazil, across to the Cape of Good Hope, and on to Mauritius,
and look after our commerce in her track.
	The Department must rely much upon your judgment to so direct the
movements of your vessel as to give the most effectual protection to
our commerce in the East, and upon your vigilance and zeal to pursue
and capture any vessel that may be engaged in preying upon it.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Commander DAvID McDoUo-AL,
Commanding U. S. S. Wyoming, Macao, China.



Letter from the U. S. consul at Nassau, New Providence, to the Secretary
of the Navy, reporting the arrival in that port of the C. S. S. Florida.

U.	S. CONSULATE AT NASSAU, NEW PROvIDENCE,
January 26, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you of the arrival at this port this
morning of the Confederate steamer Florida, late the noted Oreto,
Maffitt, late of the U. S. Navy, commander. This pirate ship entered
this port without any restrictions, with the secession flag at her peak,
and the secession war J)ennant at the main, and anchored abreast of
H. B. M. S. Barracouta, Maffitt and his officers landing in the garrison
boat, escorted by the port adjutant, Williams, of the Second West
India Regiment.
	The officers of the Florida proceeded at once to the Royal Yictoria
hotel to breakfast with the agents of the Confederate States, and they
were received with much enthusiasm by the secession sympathizers
here, and a display of secession bunting. The privateer soon after
anchoring commenced coaling, by permission of the authorities, an evi-
dence of the perfect neutrality which exists here, when the U. S. S.
Dacotah, but a few months since, was only permitted to take on board
20 tons of coal from an American bark off Hog Island, and only then on
Captain McKinstry and myself pledging ourselves in writing that
within ten days after leaving this port she would not be cruising within
5 miles of any island of the Bahama Government.
	Pretty neutrality this, I must say. As soon as tho Florida anchored
I at once chartered a small schooner, the Resolute, and dispatched her
to Stirrup Cay to carry my report to any IJuited States cruisers, a copy
of which I enclose.
	I have great fears that the Florida may overtake and destroy the
Sallie Bonsall, which I sent yesterday to the wreck of the U. S. trans-
port Planter, and I feel warranted in the employment of the Resolute
for this service

Page 60

60	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	The Anglo-Confederate steamer Girafl~e arrived yesterday from Wil-
mington with a full load of cotton, and the steamers Thistle, Douglas,
Nina, and Annie Childs sailed for Southern pQrts with contraband
cargoes.
	I sent a trusty confidential man, Samuel T. Smith, to visit the Florida
and glean what iliformation he could, but they would not allow him
alongside. The governor had given permission for the Florida to take
on board 200 tons of coal, so it is said, and her destination is reported
to be the Isthmus, to waylay the California steamers. I haveengaged
Mr. Smith to carry my dispatch to our cruisers, as the black captains
of the Bahama vessels are not trustworthy in the least degree. I have
agreed to pay him for this service $60, which I trust will be allowed in
the settlement of my accounts with the Department over which you
preside.
	I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SAML. WHITING,

U.	S. Consul.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Lieutenant Baldwin, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. S. Vanderbilt to

Roads, I~rginia,to the West Indies in	proceed from Hampton
search of C. S. S. Alabama.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 27, 1863.

	SIR: As soon as the U. S. S. Vanderbilt is ready you will proceed
with her to sea an(l resnme the search for the steamer Alabama, or 290.
You will first visit Havana, where you may obtain information to gov-
ern your future movements. You can then visit any of the islands of
the West Indies or any part of the Gulf at which you think you would
be most likely to overtake the Alabama or procure information of her.
	When you are perfectly satisfied that the Alabama has left the Gulf
or the West Indies and gone to some other locality, you will proceed
along the coast of Brazil to Fernando de Noronha and Rio de Janeiro,
making euquiry at such places as you may think advisable. From Rio
continue your course to the Cape of Good Hope, thence back to St.
Helena, Cape Verde, the Canaries, Madeira, Lisbon, Western Islands,
and New York.
	If at any point word is obtained of the Alabama, or any other rebel
craft, you will pursue her without regard to these instructions; and if
the Alabama should be captured by any of our vessels, you will regard
these instructions as void, and return at once to New York, unless you
are in pursuit of some other rebel craft.
	The U. S. bark mo is cruising in the vicinity of St. Helena, and the
U. S. S. Mohican near the Cape Verde [Islands]. Endeavor to obtain all
the information possible at points where the mail steamers touch, and
communicate with the Department as opportunity offers.
I am, respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,

Acting Lieutenant CHAS. H. BALDWIN, Secretary of the Navy.
Commanding U. S. S. Vanderbilt, Hampton Roads

Page 61

61
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS-UNION.
Order ~f Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S.
S. Sonoma, relative to cruise in West Indies. ~

FLAG-STEAMER X\TACHUSETT,
Off Anguila (Jay, January 28, 1863.
	SIR: Proceed to Cardenas, ascertain if the brig Veritas has arrived
there, telegraph to the consul-general, and theit proceed up the Old
Bahama Channel, where you will meet me or one of the vessels of the
squadron. If you should not meet us by the time you reach Lobos
light-house, then proceed through the Tongue of the Ocean, ascertain
if the Oreto has entered, or has been heard of at Nassau; if not, return
to the Old Bahama Channel by the way of Cat and Ragged islands,
where you [will I meet either the San Jacinto or Wachusett.
	Telegraph the consul-general if he has heard anything from Cienfu-
egos relative to the Santiago de Cuba and P. R. Cuyler.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[CHARLES WILKES,]

	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander T. II. STEVENS, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Steamer Sonoma, West india Squadron.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 28, 1863.
	The destruction of the Hatteras off Galveston on the 17th [11th]
iiistant is confirmed, supposed by the Alabama. The Florida (or Oreto)
escaped from Mobile on the 13th [16th], and was in Havana on the 20th
instant, watched by San Jacinto and Oneida. Send a copy of this
dispatch to Admiral Lee and proceed with all possible dispatch to
Havana, and there be governed by circumstances, but do not leave the
West Indies as long as the Florida or Alabama are there. Answer by
telegraph.	GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Lieutenant C. H. BALDWIN
Commanding Steamer Vanderbilt, Hampton Roads, Va.



[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 28, 1863.

	The Florida has escaped from Mobile, and the Alabama has destroyed
the Hatteras, oft Galveston. Let the Rhode Island, Lackawanna,
and Monongahela be prepared for sea with the utmost (lispatch, and
rel)ort when either is ready. The Vanderbilt has been ordered off by
telegraph.	GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Rear-Admiral ~. P. LEE,
Commanding North Atla~tie i3lockading Squadron,
Old Point Comfort, Va

Page 62

62	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Captain Walker, U. S. Navy, com-
manding U. S. S. Dc Soto, to proceed to the West Indies in search of
0.	5. 5. Oreto (Florida).
NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 28, 1863.
	SIR:	The order to you of the 26th instant to report to Rear-Admiral
Dii Pont is hereby revoked. The moment the De Soto is ready for sea
proceed with her with all possible dispatch to Key West and report
to Acting Rear-Admiral Bailey. The Department desires you to use
every exertion to get the Dc Soto off. She is a swift steamer, and tIi~
main object iii sending her to Acting Rear-Admiral Bailey is that he
may dispatch her after the Oreto. The latest information is that this
rebel steamer is at Havana, watched by one or two of our steamers,
and you will therefore touch at Havana on your way out, and if she is
still there assist in guarding her, iii which case send a copy of this
order to Acting Rear-Admiral Bailey, with the communication for him
herewith euclosed.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Captain WM. M. WALKER,	Secretary of the Navy.
Commanding U. S. S. Dc Soto, Philadelphia.


Capture of British brig Magicienne, Jan nary 28, 1863.

Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Nickels, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Onward.

U.	S. SHIP ONWARD,
At Sea, January 28, 1863.
	SIR:	I send this by the brig Magicienne, in charge of Acting Ensign
Henry P. Conner. I have this day seized her as being a snspicious ves-
sel, although I have not found any contraband goods aboard. I seized
her in latitude 22~ 55, longitude 280 32. There is no doubt in my
mind but that she is loaded with goods intended for the rebels,and I
have therefore determined to send her in to have her case adjudicated
by a prize court. I have not time to send a list of prize crew, as there
is another brig in sight which is from the same port, viz, Liverpooi,
and bonnd for the same place, viz, Matamoras, Mexico. I will forward
it upon my arrival in Boston.
Hoping my action will meet with your approval,
I remain, your obedient servant,
J.	F. NICKELS,
[Acting Volunteer] Lieutenant, Oommanding U. S. Ship Onward.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of U. S. Navy.


Letter from the U. S. district attorney, Florida, to the Secretary of the Navy, advising tie
restoration of the British brig Magicienne.

U.	S. DISTRIcT ATTORNEYS OFFICE
Key West, Flu., February 28, 1863.
	SIR:	The British brig Magicienne was lately sent into this port as
prize by the ship of war Onward. After investigating the facts of the
case fully, and finding no cause whatever for the seizure, I have take

Page 63

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	63


the responsibility, in accordance with the spirit of a letter addressed
to me by the Attorney-General at the establishment of the blockade, of
not commencing proceedings against her. Acc~dingly I have not
filed a libel, bnt have advised the prize commissioner to restore the
vessel to the master. I can not doubt that in a case so plain as this
one the course I have pursued is the most honorable for the Govern-
ment, and much the wisest for the captors.
I am, sir, your most obedient servant,
Tnos. J. BOYNTON,
U.	S. Attorney, Southern District of Florida.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary, Washington.


Letter from the Secretary of State to the Secretary of the Navy, transmitting letter from the
British minister requesting compensation in the case of the brig Magicienne.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, April 23, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to invite your attention to the enclosed copy
of a note of yesterday from Lord Lyons, in which compensation is
asked for the capture by the IT. S. ship Onward of the British vessel
Magicienne, on her voyage from Liverpool to Matamoras, and in which,
with reference to that case, a representation is made touching the
alleged habit of the United States cruisers seizing vessels, on the chance
that somethijig may possibly be discovered. cv post facto, which will pre.
vent the captors from being condemned to pay damages.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
WILLIAM II. SEWARD,
[Secretary of State.]
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
[Enclosure.]

WASIHN~TON, April 22, 1863.
	SIR:	You are doubtless well acquainted with the particulars of the
capture by the U. S. ship Onward of the British vessel Magicienne, on
her voyage from Liverpool to Matamoras and of her subsequent release
without being proceeded against in the prize court. She was, as you are
aware restored to the master in consequence of a letter of the U. S.
district attorney at Key West to the prize commissioner, declaring that
after examining the depositions taken in the case, and the invoices,
bills of lading, and other papers, he could see nothing on which to base
a demand for condemnation, or even for a certificate of probable cause
of seizure. There can, therefore, be no question as to the capture of
this vessel being wholly unjustifiable, and her Majestys Government
have accordingly instructed me to apply to the Government of the
United States for full compensation to the parties interested.
	The destination of the vessel was that of her accustomed trade, her
cargo was not contraband, her papers were regular, she was not
attempting to break any blockade; there was, therefore, n~ plausible
excuse for her detention.
	The jnstice of the case evidently calls for speedy compensation, and
her Majestys Government do not anticipate any delay on the part of
the U. S. Government in making it. But her Majestys Government
desire to represent to the Government of the United States, with refer-
ence to this case, that the habit of the United States cruisers of sei

Page 64

64	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

ing vessels on the chance that something may possibly be discovered,
ex post facto, which will prevent the captors from being condemned to
pay damages, renders the practical fulfillment o1~ the obligations of a
neutral state to respect the abstract rights of the belligerent a task
of daily increasing difficulty.
	I have the honor to be, with the highest consideration, sir, your most
obedient, humble servant,
LYONS.
	Hon. WM. H. SEWARD.


Order of A cting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, to Captain Hazard,
U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Oneida.
FLAG-STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Old Bahama Channel, January 29, 1863.
	SIR:	You will cruise during the night between the Paredon Grande
light-house and the Lobos light-house, keeping 10 miles to the eastward
of the Paredon light, and join me off the Lobos to-morrow morning.
The San Jacinto will be to the westward of you some 10 miles.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[CHARLES WILKES,J
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.

Captain S. F. HAZARD, 1ff. S. Navy,
Commanding Steamer Oneida.


Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Commander Ronchendorif, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. S. San Jacinto.
FLAG-STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Old Bahama Channel, January 29, 1863.
	SIR:	You will lay off and on the Paredon Grande light-house during
the night and join me at the Lobos light, some 30 miles to the eastward,
8 oclock in the morning. The Oneida will be to the eastward of you
some 10 miles.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,]
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander WM. IIoNCKENDORFF, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Steamer San Jacinto.


Letter from U. S. consul-general at Havana, Cuba, to Rear-Admiral Far-
ragut, U. S. Navy, commanding Western gulf Blockading Squadron,
reporting the whereabouts of C. S. steamers Alabama and Florida.

U. S. CONSULATE-GENERAL,
Havana, January 29, 1863.
	SIR:	I transmit for your information a copy of a letter received yes-
terday evening from Cienfuegos:
	DEAR Sin: Yours of the 23d instant came to hand last evening, and was iminedi-
ately delivered to Captains Ridgely and Emmons, who am at this moment leaving
the harbor.
	An English vessel arrived this afternoon from Kingston, Jamaica, and reports that
the Alabama arrived at that port on the afternoon of 20th instant, having on board
150 men of the officers and crew of the unlhrtnnate gunboat Hatteras, which sh

Page 65

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	35

sunk oft (~n.lveston. The Alabama in the fuTht receive(l four shots in her hull, one
of ~vhn1 uuuade an ugly wound near her sterupost, about 18 inches above the water
line, and she was re~)airing, and was to have left in three (1a~s, etc.

	The If iort(l a, having burned the American brig Estelle off Tortugas,
arrived here (Havana) on the 20th instant, coaled and sailed 43 a. m. of
the 22d. At 6 p. m. of the same day the Wachusett, Admiral Wilkes,
came into port, and the following noon the Oneida entered the harbor.
In the meanwhile I received the intelligence of the destruction of four
more American vessels by the Florida, one off Matanzas and three off
Cardenas. On the evening of the 23d the Oneida sailed, having received
orders from Admiral Wilkes; 24th, the Wachusett sailed, and on the
morning of 25th the gunboats Sonoma and Tioga arrived here and
sailed again. The last news of the Florida which I have received is to
the effect that she was seen off Inagna by the British gunboat Steady.
	Admiral Wilkes is in pursuit with all of the above-named vessels,
and the Santiago de Cuba and R. P. Onyler are under or(lers transmit.
ted from here to continue the pursuit on the south side of this island.
	I am not in the receipt of any other intelligence to communicate, and
therefore remain, at your further disposition, and very respectfully,
Your obedient servant,
H.	W. SHUFELDT,
Consul- General.
	Hear-Admiral D. G. FARRAGUT, U. S. Navy.

	P. S.Later news from Cienfuegos leads me to the belief that the
Santiago and ,Cuyler have gone to Kingston to look out for the Alabama.



Report of Commander Nichols, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Ala-
bama, relative to Confederate privateer Retribution.
U. S. S. ALABAMA,
Cura9ao, January 29, 18G3.
	SIR: On the evening of January 18 an American brig appeared off
the harbor of St. Thomas, and a report was sent in from her that she
had beemi a prize to the Confederate privateer schooner Retribution, ammd
imad been recaptured by the prize crew. I imnumediately went on board of
her in company with John T. Edgar, esq., U. S. consul, an(l finding the
tacts as above stated, placed an officer and four armed men in charge,
with orders to lay off and on during the night.
	On the following morning the cousul, ascertaining from the governor
that mmo difficulty would be made by the Danish authorities, the brig
was brought into port amid placed in the hands of the consul, tIme prize
crew of. seven men being brouglmt on board this vessel for safe-keeping.
	It appears from the deposition of some oT these men timat the arms,
anmmnunition, etc., for the Retribution were transferred from that vesscl
iii the harbor of St. Tlmomnas to the schooner Dixie, which sailed in the
night in violation of the port regulations, as stated iii my letter of Jan-
uary 14. The two vessels nmet at the island of Blamiquilla, iii latitude
110 52 N., longitude 434041/ W., where the rms, etc., were retransferred
to time Retribution, and the Dixie sailed, supposed for Turks Island
for salt, thence to a Southern port. Time Retribution mounted her guns,
One 20-poummder rifle and two smoothbore 12-pounders, refitted riggimmg,
etc., and on the 3d of January appeared off St. Thomas ammd clmased
two Americaim vessels back to port. The next day she sailed north, and
on the 10th fell in with amid captnred tlme American brig J. P. Ellieott,
N W RvoL 11

Page 66

66	OPERATIONS OF TEN CRUISERSUNION.
of Bucksport, Me., bound from Boston to Olenfliegos. A prize crew of
five seamen and two officers was placed on board with orders to remain
by the schooner during the night ad they tould receive definite
orders in the morning. Gilbert Hay ad Thomas Gilbert were in
charge. The officers ad crew of the BWoott were taken on board the
schooner and the wife of themateleftonboardthebrig. In the morning
the schooner was Dot in sight, ad the prize crew determined to recap-
ture and carry the vessel to New York.
The first part of this plan the7 accomplished under the lead of Thomas
(Join and John Wilson, byplacing Hay and Gilbertin frons, and headed
the brig for New York, but the weather being heavy and the brig leak-
ing badly, they bore up for St. Thomas, where they arrived as above
stated. Hay is an old offender, having been captured while in command
of tine privateer Beaureg.rL Gilbert deserted from the American brig
Gilmore JferedAtl. (of which he was second mate) at St. Thomas. Coin
and Wilson deserted from the same vessel at the same time and all
joined the R.tributfrm, receiving *25 advance and the promise of *50
more if successful in running the blockade inward.
	They deny any knowledge of the intention of the captain to go priva-
teering until they were informed of it the day after leaving St. Thomas.
Gilbert agreed to continue in her at *25 per month and two shares in
prizes. Coin and Wilson, the two leading men in the recapture, deserve
credit, and are entitled to some reward from the owners or insurers. I
would respectfully recommend the five men composing the crew to the
clemency of his Excellency the President of the United States.
	Hay left Wilmington in the schooner, knowing that she was to be a
privateer, and Gilbert joined her as a privateer. Suspecting from the
statements of the prisoners that the island of Blanquilla was a place of
rendezvousfor the privateer and her prizes, I sailed for that place on
the morning of the 21st, spending most of the day in cruising around
the cays and islands at the eastern end of Puerto Rico, where it was
reported she had been recently seen. I arrived at the island of Blan.
quilla on the morning of the 24th and found therethe American whaling
schooner Oread, of Provincetown, on a whalingvoyage, reported having
been spoken by the Ha,. JutAuto on the 2d instantin Mona Passage, and
warned of the presence of the Alabama and Retrilnutioa in tine West
Indies. The captain (Young) of the Oread informed me that the even-
ing previous to my arrival a schooner appeared off the island, and being
unable by reason of light winds and stronq current to reach the anchor-
age, bore up and ran to the westward. His description of the schooner
corresponded well with the Retributiou, and thinking it probable she
might intend to land her prisoners at some of the ports to the west, I
started in pursuit, and arrived at this port on the 28th instant, having
cruised about and examined in my route the islands of Orchilla, Los
Boques, east and westof Bird Islands rislands de Ayes], and BuenAyre
without seeing or learning an~g of her. I did not intend ping
bere,bntlearning from the pilot that therewasalargesupplyof coal
belonging to the Government, I entered for the purpose of filling up,
and shall leave again as soon as this is accomplished.
	Enclosed is a list of the prisoners 1 haveon beard. I shall send them
to nonie port iii the United States by the first Government vessel.
I am	happy to say that the officers and crew are in good health.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ED. T. NICHoLs,
(Jomraagsder.
Hon. GiDEoN WELLES,
Secretary of ti.. Navy, Waehisgtou, D. 

Page 67

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	67


Report of Commander Clary, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tioga, of
information obtained at Nassan~ New Providence, regarding C. S. S.
Florida.
U.	S. GUNBOAT TIoGA,
Great Stirrup Cay, Bahamas, 12 in., January 29, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my arrival on the banks at these
cays this morning at 9 a. n. Immediately upon anchoring received a
corn tnnnication from the American consul, Nassau, to the effect that the
rebel steamer Oreto, or Florida, arrived there the 2~ith instant and coin-
mnenced coaling; that she would leave the following day at 2 p. in. (the
27th), probably for the Isthmus, to intercept the California steamers.
	I shall leave here at once for off Nassau to ascertain if this rebel
steamer is there; if she his left, to proceed at once to i uforin Admirals
Wilkes and Bailey of her supposed movements.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
A. G. CLARY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIUEoN WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT,
January 29, 1863.
	The Oreto left Havana on the 22d instant, burned a brig off Matanzas
and three o~ Cardenas. She has probably gone to the Old Bahama
Channel. You will procee~l in that direction with tile utmost dispatch
and report for duty to Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes by letter xvlmen
j)ossible, but your first duty is to pursue the Oreto and Alabama. Send
a copy of this dispatch to Acting Rear-Admiral Lee, and answer by
telegraph.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Commander S. D. TRENCHARD,
Commanding U. S. S. Rhode Island, Hampton Roads, Va.


[Telegram.]

FORTRESS MONROE, January 29, 1863.
(Received Washington, 1). .,:~O  in.)
	SIn: Your telegram of this date has beeu received, and your order
will be promptly executed.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
STEPJIEN I). TnENduAlw,
Commander U. S. S. Phode Island.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy.

avy, commanding i Vest
Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wiike~ U S N
India Squadron, to Commander Clary, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S.
S.	Tioga, relative to cruise.
FLAThSTEAMER WACIIUSETT,
Off Lobos Light, Old Bahama Channel, February 1, 1863.
	SIR: You will proceed with the Tioga at once across the Grand
[Greati Bank, through the Blossom or Queens or the Washerwolnau

Page 68

68	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

channels, to the Tongue of the Ocean, an(l from thence to Nassau,
where you will find the Sonoma, Commander Stevens, who was directed
to communicate with the consul there, and wliicl~point he will probably
reach this evening. Commander Stevens was ordered to cross the
banks from Nassau to the Ship Channel, into ~he Exuina Sound, on his
way to Columbus Point, the south end of Little San Salvador. From
this point he was to })roceed outside to the north end of Eleuthera, and
from thence through the North West Provi(lence Channel to Key West
or Havana.
	You will exercise your judgment in shaping your course so as to
intercept Captain Stevens, and when found give him the accompanying
orders, and proceed to join Commander Collins and cruise agreeably
to previous orders.
I am, very respeetfally, your obedient servant,
[CHARLES WILKES,J
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India AS~quadron.

	Commander A. G. CLARY, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Steamer [Iioga, West India Squadron.



Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S.
S. Sonoma, relative to cruise.

FLAG STEA1XIER WACHUSETT,
	Off Lobos Light, Old Bahama Channel, February 1, 1863.

	SIR:	You will return at once with the Sonoma to this point, where
you will meet me. Should I have left, you will repair with as little
delay as possible to the eastward, looking in at Nuevitas, where I may
be, to Cape Maysi, where, if not met before, you will certainly find me,
or one of the vessels of the sqnadron, with orders for you.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[CHARLES WILKES,]
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander T. II. STEVENS,
Commanding Steamer Sonoma, IVest India Squadron.



Chase of the C. S. S. Florida by the U. S. S. Sonoma, February 1 and 2, 1863.

Report of Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Sonoma, of chase of the
C. S. S. Florida.

U.	S. S. So~o~A,
At Sea, Lat. 250 35 N., Long. 730 40 W., February 3, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you that while crossing the Bahama
Banks from Lobos Cay to the Tongue of the Ocean, I discovered in the
Queens Channel, on the morning of the 1st of February, at 7 oclock,
a strange sail hoisting English colors. Upon hearing her she proved
to be a propeller steamer, answerii ig in all respects the description of
the Oreto, or Florida. I immediately made all sail, and, with a full head
of steam, started in pursfiit, and gradually, though slowly, gained upon
her through the Queens Channel, the Tongue of the Ocean, and Nort

Page 69

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	69

West Providence Channel, when, the sea and wind rising, she rapidly
drew away from us, until sundown of the 2d, when, being nearly top-
sails down, and distant about 12 miles, ~ e lost si~Iit of her at clark,
in latitude 26~ 37 N., and longitude 750 W., the Hole iii the Wall then
bearing W. S. W., distant 125 miles. I am still ~I1 search of her. At
no time was she within range of our guns. When last seen she was
steering to the eastward. We chased her, for about thirty-four hours, a
distance of nearly 300 miles.
I have the honor to be your obe(hent servant,
T. H. STEVENS,
Gomn under, U. ~. Navy.
Hon. SECRETARY OF THE NAVY.



Abstract log U. S. S. Sonoma, Commander T. H. Stevens, February 1 and 2, 1863.

	February 1.At 7:45 a. m. saw a topsail schooner from deck bearing
N.; headed for her. At 8 made the sail to be a bark-rigged steamer. At
8:30 beat to quarters and gave chase to the rebel steamer Florida. At
8: 45 made all (Irawing sail and all steam. At meridian gaining slowly
on chase. Meridian to 4 all hands at quarters, all sail and steam on,
in chase of the Florida, distant about 6 miles ahead, bearing N. by W.
4 W. At 6:30 p. in. took in all sail. At 8 Florida bearing N. N. W.,
(listant 5 miles. At 7 : 45 set jib. At 10 made all sail chase
within
sight bearing N. E. by E. 4 E., distant~) miles.
	February 2.At 1:30 a. m. ma(le Abaco light, bearing N. by W.
At 4 the lightbore W. by N. 4 N., distant 20 miles. The chase bore
N. E. by N., distant 5 miles. From 4 to 8 still in chase of the Florida.
At 8 a. in. Florida bearing N. E. by Ii~. 4 E., distant 5 miles. Carrying all
sail and steam. From 8 to meridian still in chase of the Florida. At
12 carric(l away fore gaff~topsail sheet. Rove it again and set the sail.
ii eavy swell settin gfromA the S. E ., Florida l)earing N. B. by B. easterly,
distant 12 miles. At 2 :30 lost sight of the chase from wheelhouse bear-
ing N. B ~ B. At 4: 30 nn de out the Florida from masthead bearing E.
.4
by N. and immediately hauled up for her. At dusk lost sight of the
chase bearing B. by N., distant 12 miles, chase bearing B. S. E.; wind
light and very heavy swell, which was continued all through the (lay.


Second report of Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Sonoma, of chase of
the C. S. S. Oreto (Florida), and the capture of English bark Springbok.

U. 5. S. SONOMA,
Key West, February 9, 1863.
	SIR:	In obedience to your orders, while crossing the Bahama Banks
and about enterimig the Queens Channel, on the morning of the 1st of
February, at 7 oclock, a strange 5( il was reported, which, upon near-
ilig, I at once pronounced to be the Oveto, or Florida. About the time
we made her out she hoisted English colors and imnmediately chamiged
her course from the southward and eastward to the northward, firing
up heavily and making all sail. I imnmediately started in pursuit nuder
all drawing sail and a full head of steam, and chased her with varying
success through the Queens Channel, the Tongue of the Ocean, amid
North East Providence Channel, 125 miles to sea, losing her at dusk
on the evening of the 2d, when Hole in the Wail then bore W. S. W.
the distance above named

Page 70

70	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	Three times we had the Oreto almost under our guns, when the
blower belt parted and all that we had gained upon her was lost.
Upou reaching the open sea, when the wind fi~shened and the sea
rose, she drew away from us, and when last seen was standing to the
eastward. I am satisfied from my observations during the chase the
speed of the Oreto is greatly exaggerated, and I have no doubt under
steam alone the AS~onorna is a faster vessel. When the wind lulled we
gained upon her slowly, but perceptibly, but with the freshening
breeze and heavy sea she had the legs of us.
	Ga the morning of the 3d of February, while looking for the Oreto, I
captured the English bark Sprinybok, loaded with contraband, bound
to Nassau, but having nothing in the way of a manifest of a legal
character, and being upon the list furnished by you, I sent her to New
York for adjudication in charge of Acting Master Foster Willis, with
a prize crew from this vessel. The vessel was from London. The
capture was made in latitude 250 41 N., longitude 740 4f3 W.
	Having but about 20 tons of coal remaining, with the prospect
of heavy Nveather, I bore up, after separating from the prize, for San
Salvador, in hopes of meeting the Oneida, as your orders contemplated.
Tailing in this, and understanding upon communicating with the shore
that a steamer l)ainted lead color and without masts had passed up the
sound steering for the Ship Channel, I started in pursuit at once, in
hopes of heading her oft before she could enter the channel the next
morning, which she hardly had time to do before then, but upon
appearing off there at daybreak there was nothing of her to be seen.
	Anticipating delays in communicating with the consul at Nassau, 1
passed through the Ship Channel over the middle ground and through
the Six Shilling Channel, the wind favoring, to Stirrup Cay, in hopcs
of meeting some of our cruisers to start at once with the information I
had of the Oretos whereabouts to you, but failing in this, after writing
to the consul at Nassau and to the commanding officers of the Tioga
and Octorara upon the subject, I crossed the bank for Key West, at
which place I arrived out of coal and in need of repairs on the night of
the 7th of February. Finding several of our cruisers there, also in
need of repairs, I concluded to fill up with coal, repair the outboard
delivery valve, which I had carried away, and wait a better opportu-
umity to do the work needed upon the boilers and vessel when they
should be cruising.
	I shall leave as soon as possible, and after communicating with the
consul-general at Havana shall cruise, as directed by you, between
Cardenas and Havana.
I have the honor to be yours, respectfully,
T.	H. STEVENS,
Commander.
Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of the movements of the vessels under his command in
the search for Confederate cruisers.

FLAG-STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Off Jiobos Cay, February 2, 1863.
	SIR:	I regret to inform you of an untoward accident which has hap-
pened to the steamer San Jacinto in the breaking off of the shaft, an

Page 71

OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.	71

thus detaching the propeller. It fell down across the keel and between
the stern and rudder posts and there lodged. It is fortunate that this
accident should have taken place in smooth water, a~td near anchorage.
Had it happened in a heavy sea, or beyond anchorage, the propeller
would have been lost and the ship greatly endangered. Commander
IRonekendorif has been enabled to save the propeller and take it on
board. The exertions of himself, officers, and crew I beg leave to coin-
mend to your notice.
	The San Jacinto being entirely disabled as a steamer, I ordered a
quantity of her coal to be taken on board the Wachusett, Oneida, m1
Sor~oma, leaving eiiongh fbr balk st, and after receiving the report of
the engineers, whom I ordered to survey it, I made up my mind th~t as
the repairs could not be effected at Key West or The Havannah to order
her directly to New York for the necessary shaft. I~herewith enclose
you the survey. This accident has somewhat delayed my operations,
but off this point we command the whole Old Bahama Channel, and are
enabled to board, night or day, all passers.
	The loss of the San Jacin~os services is vexatious, as we should have
been off Cape Maysi as soon as the Florida. From information brought
me by the Tioga last night, the Florida was admitted into the port of
Nassau on the morning of the 26th January and obtained 200 tons of
coal, it is said, sailing again on the 27th at 2 p. in., it is presumed, for
the east end of Cuba, which it will t ke her three days to icach, making
it the 30th.
	If the Santiago de Cuba and R. B. Cayler have carried ont my orders
sent to Cienfi~gos, they will have arrived off Cape Maysi on the ~Sth
to cruise there, and will be on the lookout for her. If she ende ivors to
escape this way we shall intercept her. It is no doubt the Florida~
intention to await the California ste~ mners. lie must be a~ vet niun
formed that their route is now by Cape I Sani Antonio, off ~ 1n 11 cape,
since tl~e capture of the Arid, I have had a force, particuliily on the
days of the steamers passing those points, and shall continuc to (10 ~o
but, as I have repeatedly written you, my force is ii adequate to these
duties and ti iose around the l3ahmama lslai ids, particular] y sincetlie block-
aders have l)rocured flomn Eiigland a faster class of vessels to reshil)
the contraband goods which have been stored at Nassau, and these
are making use ot the most unfrequented cli nuels inid pa~-~ through
the reefs and shoals to avoid us, and multiplies the places to be watched.
	I refrain from detailing the circumstances mlu(ler which tIme Orelo or
Florida was received and treated at Nassau. You will have received
the accounts prior to the receipt of this letter. They filly illustrate
the difference in the application of her Britannic Majestys proclamnatiomi
to us and therebels. From such a set of unprincipled rascals we can not
expect it to be otherwise. had 1 more force I woul(l make their j)ockets
suffer. Every petty restriction is endeavored to be l)racticed on us
whilst all favoritism and assistance are given the rebels. But I (lo not
complain of them; they are free to say what they like. 1 shall carry
out your orders as f~r as it is in my power.
	The B. N. Cuyler amid Oaeida beiiig sent in search of the Oreto when
she escaped, I have united them to my own foice to keep up a hot pur-
suit and furnished them with coal. At Turtle hiarhor, on my late
visit, I found the storeship and (Jemsbolc so much exposed to an attack
that I determined to order them to Key West for better security. This
was at once effected the afternoon we left. Should I receive an increase
of force I shall order one of them (ihie Cuard or Gemsbok) to windward
with coal, as it is impossible to procure it at such places where it i

Page 72

72	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

so much neede(l. Commander Ronekendorif will be able to explain
most fully the difficulties nnder which ~e labor as to coal. It may be
necessary for me to go as far to windward as St. Thomas. One or
two small privateers are reported as having fitted out at that port by
the connivance of the governor of the island, but I shall endeavor to
time my visit as not to interfere with the great object of hunting up the
Alabama and Oreto and obtaining information as to their places for
coaling and recruiting. Their great object is the California mail steam-
ers with the specie on board. Their lilans I hope to forestall and
circumvent.
	I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Nary, Washington.


[Telegram.]

BOSTON, 2:40 p. m. February 2, 1863.
	From last reports concerning the Alabama, the intelligent Boston
merchants believe it not improbable that Semmes may make a descent
on the Massaclnisetts coast, say at Provincetown, which is wholly
nnprotected, and suggest that an armed Federal vessel should be sta-
tioned there.
JNO. A. ANDREW,
Governor of Massachusetts.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy.


Report of Commander Emmons, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. I?. P.
Cuyler, of cruise in search of Confederate cruisers.

U.	S. S. H. H. CUYLER,
Off Lobos Cay, North Side of Cuba, February 3, 1863.
	SIR: Having been some time separated from the Western Gulf
Blockading Squadron, I embrace the first opportunity of enclosing a
copy of my report* to Admiral Fari~agut, through Admiral Wilkes, off
the west end of Cuba.
	Since the date of that report, nuder instructions from Admiral
Wilkes, I have visited the island of Grand Cayman, several ports of
Cuba, besides nearly circumnavigating the island and overhauling
many vessels, without meeting with a rebel cruiser; was detained one
day at Cienfuegos by the pilot running the ship aground, but I got her
off without any damage that I am aware of Oft the eastern end of
Cuba I spoke II. B. 14. bark Plover (very much resembling ~he 290) and
was informed that one week previous the 290 arrived at Port Royal
[Jamaica] under English colors, havii~g on board the officers and crew
of the U. S. sloop of war ilatteras, which she sunk off Galveston, and
in answer to the enquiry, How long will the Alabama (290) be per-
mitted to remain in her Britannic Majestys port ~ was answered, Oh,
she has been ordered out, or words to this effect.

See p. 28

Page 73

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	73

	The vessels so much resemble the Oreto and 290 that they are not
only a terror to our inerchautmen, but they give us a great deal of
trouble and uncertainty while chasing or approaching to learn their
real character.
	Their flag is that usually displayed by the rebels, who do not hesitate
to use any other that may suit their convenience, and, as the latter have
their agents and sympathizers everywhere in these seas, they are gen-
erally better informed of our movements than we can possibly be of
theirs, and in this way elude us when even on their trail.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEG. F. EMMONS,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commander Stevens, U. S. Nary, commanding U. S. S. Sonoma,
oj capture by that i~esscl of English brig Sprinybok.

U.	S. S. SONOMA,
At Sea, Lat. 250 35 N., Long. 730 40 W., February 3, 1863.
	Siu:	I have the honor to inform you, while cruising for the Oreto, I
have this day caI)t1~red, in latitude and longitude as above mentioned,
the English bark ~S~pringbok, one of the vessels (lesignated as a contra-
band trader ~ipon the list furnished inc by Rear-Admiral Wilkes,
which I send to New York for adjudication. The S ringbok has no
proper manifest, nothing to show the character of the cargo, which the
captain says lie is also ignorant of, and these facts, upon a full exam-
ination of it, will, I doubt not, insure her condemnation.
I send the Springbok to New York in charge of Acting Master Willis.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
T.	II. STEVENS,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. SECRETARY OF THE NAvY.


Order of Acting Rear-A dmiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Commander Emmons, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. S. B. B. Cuyler, regarding search for C. S. steamers Alabama
and Oreto (Florida).
FLAG-STEAMER WACHUSETT,
	Off Lobos Light, Old Bahama Channel, February 3, 1863.
	SIR:	As it has become highly important to follow np, as speedily as
possible, on the tracks of the Oreto and A labama, I deem it necessary
to retain your vessel. You will therefore proceed to Key West, coal,
get an anchor, and make what repairs are absolutely necessary and
accompany the Santiago de Cuba.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES W1LI~ES,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander GEO. F. EMMONS, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Steamer B. R. ~Juyler

Page 74

74	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Acting Lieutenant Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Vanderbilt, of the supposed whereabouts of C. S. steamers Alabama and
Florida.

U.	S. S. VANDERBILT,
Havana, February 4, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report the arrival of this ship here yesterday.
I find the Florida left here on the 22d January, and was afterwards
heard of at Nassau; she x Tas followed a P2w days after by several of
Admiral Wilkess vessels. The Alabama was reported at Jamaica on
the 20th January, repairing. The Santiago de Cuba and Onyler have
sailed for them.
	After consulting with our consul I have determined to sail this p. m.
for off Cape San Antonio, in the first place, and, in default of hearing
of either the Florida or Alabama in that neighborhood, to go along the
south coast of Cuba, and enquire at Grand Cayinan; thence either to
Jamaica or Caicos Passage. This course will, iii the o Finion of Mr.
Shufeldt, take me over ground not already covered by our cruisers.
Of course I may at any moment get further information such as will
cause me to alter my present views entirely, in which case I shall not
lose a moment in following it up, and have the honor to be,
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	H. BALDWIN,
Acting Lieutenant, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the NaVy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commander Bryson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Chippewa,
of the escape of steamer Sumter from Gibraltar.

U. S. GUNBOAT CHIPPEWA,
Algeciras Bay, Spain, February 7, 1863.
SIR:	I regret to inform you that notwithstanding the utmost vigi-
lance on my part the Sumter escaped froni Gibraltar on the night of the
6th instant.
	It was blowing a heavy levanter at the time, and, althongh anchored
within 3 miles of her, the darkness wevented her being seen. A con-
stant watch was kept in that direction, but it was not until broad (lay-
light that we discovered that she had left.
	From information received from Gibraltar this morning at 10 oclock
I learn that she left at or about S oclock p. m. The moon at that time
was entirely obscured by heavy, black clouds, and I could barely make
out the vessels anchored immediately aioun(l us. At no time (hiring
the night was it light enough to distinguish vessels lying at Gibraltar.
Feeling that it would be utterly impossible for me to overtake a fast
steamer like the Sumter, and being uncertain as to the direction she
may have taken, I did not go in pursuit of her.
	I shall await further instructions from the I)epartmnemmt at this I)lace.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
A.	BRYSON,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 75

OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSUNION.	75

1?ejport of Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tus-
carora, of return to Cadiz, Spain, from ]Jiliadeira, transmitting copy of
letter to the U. S. minister to England, regarding%thc validity of the
sale of steamer Sumter.

U.	S. STEMI SLOOP TuSOAIIORA,
Cadiz, February 8, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report to you my returli to this place from
Madeira. I did not extend my cruise beyond that island, as I learned
that the Dacolah was at Porto Grande (Cape Verde [Islandsl), about
18th January, and subseqently, by African steamer, I heard of another
of our steamers, name not known, at Porto Praya.
	I el]close to you a copy of a letter I have addressed to Mr. Adams.
The rule of law, as laid down by England and France, I learned here;
it will be useful to our squadron iii the Gulf where there were many
vessels of the rebels under British colors, when I was at Key West in
1861. The British consul at havana furnishes papers at very short
notice.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T.	AuGs. CRAVEN,
Commander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

[Enclosure.]

U.	S. S. TUSCARORA,
Cadiz, February 8, 1863.
	SIR: I received this mornin ~ from Mr. Sprague a dispatch communi-
cating to inc that the Sumter had escaped on the night of the 6th instant
during the gale. I should have received the dispatch yesterday by 1
p. in., but a gale of wind prevente(1 my boats returning to the ship dur-
ing the afternoon or night, and to-day it was too late to attempt pursuit
with any reasonable Prospect of success. This communication, there-
fore, refers only to the l)resent status of the Sumter (now called
Gibraltar).
	It may not be known to your Excellency that during the Crimean
War the Governments of France and England refused to acknowledge
the validity of any sales of Uussian vessels to neutrals during the war
existing, laying down as a rule that ~hips, whether public or private,
were to be regarded as a portion of the territory, and could not be
alienated during the existence of hostilities.
	A case occurred a~t this port~ A bona fide sale was made of a IRussian
trader to merchants of this place, who freighted and sent the vessel to
sea. She was fallen in with and captured by a French cruiser, taken to
()ran, condemned, and sold. The cargo only was restored to the owners.
	By the above English rule the Sumter has not changed her nation-
ality, nor can she do so, but must be considered still as Confederate
property, and as such can not refit in England, nor remain in port
beyond twenty-four hours.
	I have information that Captain Chads, of H. B. M. ship London,
when recently sailing from Gibraltar for England, refused convoy to
the Sumter. It would therefore appear that a British naval officer can
not recognize the vessel as British property, notwithstanding the cor-
rupt action of the administration at Gibraltar

Page 76

76	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	For my future guidance I will be glad to have your opinion and advice
in this matter. I a few weeks since advised the commander of the
Chijppewa to destroy the Sumter whenever he ha4 an opportunity to do
so out of neutral jurisdiction, whether under convoy or not, and believe
my advice was correct.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T.	AUGS. CRAvEN,
Commander.
Hon. CHAS. FR&#38; NCJS ADAMS.



Report of Commander Trenchard, U. S. Navy, eommandinq U. S. S.
Rhode Island, of chase of SU8ptCiOU5 vessel, supposed to be (J. S. S.
Alabama.

U.	S. S. RHODE ISLAND.
Key West, February 10, 1863.
	Siu: I have the honor to report that at daylight on the 2d instant~,
when 315 miles to the northward of Abaco, the Rhode Island fell in
with a large steamer, apparently of English build, bark rigged, under
sail, and burning English coal, between 5 and 6 miles distant. The
weather being rainy and overcast at the time, I could not fnlly decide
as to whether she was the Alabama, the description answering suffi-
ciently near to induce giving chase.
	The steamer was steering N. E. and this vessel making the best of
her way for the Bahamas. The steam was increased, all sail crowded
on, and every effort made to overhaul the stranger, upon whom, for a
time, we appeared to gain, and for some three hours after only held our
own.
	At meridian, a heavy squall coming up ahead, sail was taken in,
but a heavy press of steam kept on, and when the weather lightened up
we appeared to have gaiiied somewhat upon the chase, but soon after
she commenced drawing ahead and gaining upon us until sunset, when
she was hull down and some 12 miles distant.
	I decided to pursue the vessel during the night, supposing that in
consequence of her success she might fancy we had given up the chase,
slow down, and that by running at full speed at daylight we might be
close aboard of her.
	Although the weather during the night had been somewhat overcast,
at daylight it cleared off brightly for a time, affording a good view from
the masthead in every direction, and seeing nothing of the stranger the
chase was given up, and we pursued our original course. During the
chase,we .judged from the dense volumes of smoke issuing at intervals
from her funnel that she was resorting to unusual means of increasing
her steam, either by burning pitch or rosin.
	Circumstances during the chase were unfavorable to the Rhode Island,
since she was obliged to steam in the trough.of the sea, which caused
at times one wheel to be out of water and the other to be so deeply
immersed as to affect the revolutions, and thereby impede the progress
of the vessel, while the sails could render but little additional spee(l.
That she can make better time is proved by the fact that she overhauled,
some few days after, a fast mail steamer within six hours after making
her smoke

Page 77

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	77

	After giving up the chase, the wind, which at the time was from the
southward and westward, increased to a gale, attended with thick,
squally weather and heavy head sea, hauling sudd~ly at 2 p. m. to the
westward, then gradually to the N. W. The ship was brought head to
wind and sea under easy steam, but in consequence of the sudden shift
of wind a very irregular and cross sea was produced. The vessel
labored heavily, losing the forward sections of her wheelhouses and
starting the bolts connecting the guard-beam braces.
	The gale continued until the following day, when it commenced mod-
erating, and the vessel was enabled to continue on her course.
	In consequence of this heavy weather and injuries sustained, I deemed
it necessary to make a port earlier than it would have been under other
circnmstances, in order to render this vessel as a cruiser as effective as
possible.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
STEPHEN D. TRENCHARD,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washingtbn, D. C.



Fleport of Commander Oraven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora,
transmitting extract from Gibraltar Chronicle regarding the escape of
steamer Sumter from that port.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP TTJSCARORA,
(Jadiz, February 10, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to enclose to you a copy of the Gibraltar
Chronicle, in which you will find an account of the escape of the Sumter,
together with a sketch of recent transactions in connection with that
vessel. This paper is published under the censorship of the governor
of Gibraltar, whose complicity in the fraudulent transt~r is very appar-
ent from his recognizing the Sumter as au English vessel, by permitting
her to hoist the flag.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T.	AUGS. CRAVEN,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

[Enclosure.]

Extract from Gibraltar Chronicle and Commercial intelligencer.

GIBRALTAR, February 7 [1863].
	The Sumter has got away at last, was very generally the first
remark that struck the ear of those who went into the main street this
morning, and, true enough, her place in the anchorage knew her iio
more. The evasion took place, it is said, at 6:30 oclock yesterday even-
ing, in the dark interval between sunset and the rising of the moon.
	When the Sumter was sold by auction some time ago, it was under-
stood that the Government of the United States would not recogniz

Page 78

78	OPERATIONS OF ThE CRUISERSUNION.

the sale. Parties who have been previously in treaty for the steamer
withdrew their offer on being made acquainted with this fact, and she
was knocked down at the auction to a gentleman sent front England to
purchase her. This person was the envoy of a Liverpool lirm who were
the financial agents of the Confederate Government, and the Federal
Government, coming to the very natural conclusion that the &#38; ~mtcr had
been purchased, either on account of the Confederate C overnmeiit or
as a private speculation, for the purpose of being freighted with a cargo
to run the blockade, instructed the com~nanders of their cruisers to
keep the most vigilant wc tch upon the Sumter, and seize her should
she put to sea. Her escape last night adds one more to the l)roofs the
American contest has already furnished that it is impossible for any
single steamer to prevent another leaving a port, an(i that the latter has
only patiently to await that concurrence of favoring circumstances which
insures her eluding the vigilance of her enemy.
	The U. S. gunboat Ohippewa has for the last month or two been as
watchful as a lynx, cruising at the entrance of the bay, arid never los-
ing sight of the Sumter. The consequence was that the latter dared
not make the attempt to put to sea, even during the long moonless
nights of last month. But a conjuncture of circumstances that prom-
ised success to the attempt occurred yesterday, and the Sumter took
advantage of the opportunity. A hard southeast gale compelled the
Chippewa to leave the dangerous anchorage atAlgeciras, where a heavy
surf rolls on a dead lee shore, and to take refuge in Orange Grove
Creek, at the head of the bay. Instead of the two steamers leaving
their anchorage abreast in a race for the straits, this move gave the
Sumter a couple of miles start, her anchorage being so much nearer to
the entrance of the bay. The easterly gale favored the Sumter in other
ways. She is light and goes well under canvas, but can not trust her
machinery, and, with the aid of the gale astern, would probably have
forereached upon the Chippewa if her departure had been discovered
and she had been chased. But the strength of the gale, the thickness
of the atmosphere, and the darkness of the night m de it next to irupos-
sible that her movements should be seen, and, moreover, whether by
accident or design, another steamer, the Hope, with her funnel pal rited
exactly like the Sumters, anchored near her. The Sumter yesterday
was warped alongside the Britaunia, steamer. It was reported in the
town that she had dragged her anchors and sustained serious (lamage
from collision with another vessel.. Carpenters were sent from the
shore, and it was said that she would not be ready for sea for a week
at least. Many believe that the anchor-dragging, collision, and car-
pentering were all parts of an artful dodge to throw the Chippewa
off her guard. If they were so, the dodge would probably have had
the opposite effect of rousing suspicion and stimulating the Ch~ppewa
to extra vigilance. Darkness and the gale were the real friends that
favored the escape of the Sumter. We last hear of her oft Cape Spartel,
which she was passing nuder a press of sail and steam at 10:30 last
night when met by the Pactotus, steamer.
	No doubt, the telegraphic wire has started Amerieaii cruisers from
Cadiz and Lisbon to intercept the Sumter, but the se( is a wide place,
and by keeping a little out of the usual track she will ~)robably run the
gantlet of her foes in safety. We have spoken of this vessel as the
Sumter, the name by which she is best known. Her proper designation
since she was sold is the Gibraltar, and her newowners (loubtless hope
she may prove like Gibraltarrather hard to take

Page 78A


Page 78B

UNITED STATES SHIP SABINE

Page 79

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	79

1i~eport of Commander Emmons, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. R. R.
Cuyler, regarding the whereabouts of C. S. steamers Alabama and
Florida.
liT. S. S. li. li. CUYLER,
Key West, February 11, 18G3.
	SIR: II have the honor to enclose copies of instructions received from
Admiral Wilkes since my last report to you. In carrying out these
instructions I have visited many places, overhauled a great many ves-
sels, and circumnavigated the island of Cuba without falling in with
a rebel vessel.
	The last positive news of the Alabama (290) was at Port Royal,
Jamaica, with the officers and crew of the Hatteras on board; but sub-
sequent information leads to the suspiiiou that she has been seen in
disguise off Carysfort Reef, and subsequently chased by the Rhode
Island to the northward and eastward of this, for one day, without
overhauling her.
	The Florida (Oreto) co led and left Nassau about the same time, and
has since been chased thirty-six hours on the Bahama Banks by the
Sonoma, finally escaping to the eastward of Nassau.
	As their whereabouts are not known from one day to another, and
they may now turn up in any of our squadrons, I informed Admiral
Wilkes when I last met him off Lobos Island that I now considered it
my duty to return to my squadron and report progress. He, however,
thought proper to assume the responsibility of the last order, of which
I send a copy, and I feel bound to obey this, providing I can obtain
here what I Thsolutely requireanchor, coal, oil, and provisions- aiid
in regard to oil I shall have to go into the niarket; I find mione here in
store to spare. In this latter item I shall perhaps be missed in your
squadron.
	I hope yon will retain any money that may have been sent out on the
requisitions of the paymaster of this vessel, as we are out, and can
only obtain it upon the ruinous rates in which it is held in late advices
from home.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEo. F. EMMoNs,
Commander.
	Rear-Admiral D. G. FARRAGUT,
Commanding Western Gulf Blockading Squadron.



Report of 61ommodore Riuggold, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. frigate
Sabine, of extended cruise for the protection of commerce, from Novem-
ber 3, 1862, to February 11, 1863.

U.	S. FRIGATE SAIIINE,
New York, February Ii, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of the Sabine, last from
Porto Praya, Cape Yerde [Islands]; officers and crew all well.
	In compliance with your letter* of instructions of the 28th October,
1862, I put to sea from New London on the 3d November last and pro-
ceeded to cruise for several days in the yicinity and south of Long
Island, in the track of vessels bound to and from New York.
~See Vol. I, p. 522

Page 80

80	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	The papers of the morning of my departure containing accounts of
several depredations by the Alabama near our own coast upon our com-
merce, and particularly that of the brig Baror~ de Castine, on the 23d
October, in latitude 390 45, longitude 69~ W., induced me to suppose
that the Alabama would stealthily proceed toward and hover around
Kew York. I then cautiously cruised to the eastward in the parallel
of 490~ in order, if possible, to intercept her in her probable advance
westward.
	The weather and season were very inclement, rendering it impossible
to reach any fixed point with certainty. After aii anxious search and
delay of ten days, and pending which I could gain no intelligence from
the few vessels spoken, I took advantage of a favorable gale at N. W.
to pass on some distance to the eastward; then proposing to haul to the
northward, and thence to the Western Islands in the usual track of
vessels bound to Europe, conjecturing that the object of our anxious
search might return easterly again, but the winds hung obstinately in
the north and forced me to the alternative of the middle passage.
	II reached Fayal on the 28th November and communicated with our
worthy comisul, Mr. Dabney, from whom I learned that nothing had
recently been heard of the Alabama or any suspicious vessels, either at
Fayal or the other ports of the group, much less any interference with
our commerce. The Tuscarora and Onward had both preceded me in
my visit to the islands, and the former was expected again in a day or
two. Your dispatch for Commodore Gleiidy was carefully left in charge
of Mr. Dabney.
	After four days spent in watering ship I passed out arid around time
islands, imitending to show the flag oft the principal ports in Terceira
and St. Michael. I was forced, however, to put to sea fromn the ammelmor-
age by a heavy S. W. gale, and which, from its duration, rendered it
impossible, without risk and much delay, to approacim any of the islands.
Therefore, I stood on to the southward un(ler easy sail, passing to tue
westward of Madeira an(l the Canaries, reaching Porto Praya on the
23d December, having devoted much time to careful observation in tIme
track of vessels from Europe to the West Indies and southern United
States; also seeking for amid comumunicating with several American
whalers engaged imi the fisheries between the Canaries amid Cape Verdes,
apprising them of the presence on the seas and the depredations of the
Alabama amid of the miecessity for tIme utmost vigilance.
	At Porto Praya I found the ]Ifohican, Captain Glisson, just in from
Bermuda. 0mm the 25th I received information, by the arrival of a
coaster, of a rumor at Fogo to the effect that a whaling bark was
taken by a steamer without colors omm the 18th instant to the northward
of the island, and towed off to sea. Whereupon 1 took the course as
indicated in my correspondemice with Captain Glisson, copies hereto
annexed.~ Upon conferring subsequently with Mr. Morse, our consul,
I was satisfied the rumor arose purely from a desire on the part of
interested islanders, who derive advantage from the presence of our
ships.
	I am gratified to say that, although I had no control over Captain
Glisson further than seniority authorized, he niost cheerfully carried
out my suggestions. During his absence I remained at anchor amid,
while watering ship, was prel)ared to protect the American brig
Eastern AS~tate, from Boston (with a cargo of provisiomis, part of which
1 had engaged for the ]JiEohican), in the event of the appearance off the

See Vol. I, pp. 597, 606608

Page 81

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	81

port of any Confederate cruiser. The authorities had no power what.
ever to prevent her being cut out or plundered, not having enough
powder to return a salute I 1)roposed. The du~1icate dispatch for
Commodore Glendy intrusted to me was placed in charge of Mr. Morse.
	1 had it in my power to render assistance to Captain Glisson by
receiving for passage home one of his crew, much injured by a frac-
ture of a limb, and supplying the ]Ifohican with some provisions, ships
stores, and a folio of charts, lists of which are hereto annexed. That
officer informed me he had recently dispatched communications to the
Department touching all his affairs.
	On the 2d January I left Porto Praya, proceeding slowly by the
south, and thence to the northwest of the islands, taking position again
to intercept European vessels in their course, either to the southern
ports of the United States or West Indies. Two weeks were devoted
to this object, when I closed in with these islands again. On the 17th
I shaped course for the coast of Brazil. On the morning of that day
the only untoward event of the cruise transpired. At 4 a. m. James
Eaton, a promising lad of English parentage, when about to go below
after his watch expired, was, it seems, proceeding unaccountably from
the starboard gangway to the maui chains, when he lost his balance
and fell overboard. The life buoy was thrown to his aid, the ship
~iromptly hove to, and a boat dropped, when Lieutenant Kelley went
immediately in pursuit, but a most careful search proved unsuccessful.
Not content with this, I put the ship about, returned to the spot, hove
to for an hour, and recovered the life buoy, but there was no trace of
the promising boy.
	In the run across to the coast of Brazil I took advantage of the
northeast winds and followed in the track of European vessels bound
across the line and to the West Indies, thence gaining the track of our
homeward-bound commerce from the east and South America. I then
followed the fairway track to the northward and westward under cruis-
ing sail, crossing for a second thue the course pursued by vessels from
Europe to the West Indies, thence to this port south of Bermuda, in
order, if possible, to intercept vessels proceeding to Nassau.
	All vessels seen were run for and boarded or spoken whenever the
weather permitted. Among those boarded, after careful search, I have
detected none in carrying contraband goods to the encmy. The only
suspicious case was that of the English bark Westoc. Even in this
instance, after a most deliberate investigation, I found I had no ground
for seizure.
	Nothing has been seen or heard of any Confederate vessels, or intelli-
gence gained of any interference with our commerce. The officers and
all have evinced the greatest ardor and vigilance, and I regret it has
not fallen to our lot to encounter the Alabama.
	I am gratified to report the crew of the ship in excellent health and
efficiency, as will appear from the report of Surgeon Abernethy, hereto
annexed.
	In a very heavy N. E. storm on the 7th November, a sea swept
over the ship, carrying away the starboard quarter boat. The ship
requires a general overhauling incident to a protracted cruise, and also
requires to be replenished with provisions, stores, boats, etc. Reports
and requisitions will be submitted to the commanding officer of the
navy yard at this place touching these matters.
	I beg leave to report having received on board seven American sea-
men from our consul at Fayal and a destitute A~merican boy at Porto
	NWRYOLII	

Page 82

82	OPERATIONS OP TUE CRUISERSUNION.
Praya, all of whom 1 shipped for the general service, under the cir-
cumstances mentioned in the enUstment return herewith.
I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant,
CADwALADER ltixauow,
Commodore, iT. &#38; Navy, Commanding &#38; .bi...
Hon. Gmuox WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Letter from the Secretary of State to the Secretary of the Navy, regarding
the use of the Azores and Cape Verde island. as a rendezvous for con-
traband trade.
DEPARTnNT OP STAn,
Washington, February 11, 1868.
	Sn:	It has been suggested to the Department that British vessels
trading with Terceira, St. Michael and flores (Azores), have recently
been in the habit of carrying coal to these islands with the apparent
intention of funaislilag it to piratical cruisers, or to steamers intending
to run the blockade, inasmuch as the only coal depot at the Azores is
owned by the American consul, from whom, of course, no supply can
be obtained by such vessels.
This indication, taken in connection with others, and with the results
of costly experience, exhibits a purpose of making those islands, per-
haps alternating with the Cape Verde Islands, the rendezvous for a
contraband trade, and for tinned cruisers to prey upon our commerce.
Our consul at the Azores has been specially instructed upon this subject.
	I beg leave, therefore, to suggest that when the public interests will
permit one of our steamships now in the Mcditerranean or on the coast
of Africa, orfrom the blockading ileet, should occasionally cruise around
these islands and the Utipe Verdes until sufficient reason should appear
for relief from that service.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
WILLIAX II. SEWARD,
[Secretary of State.I
	Hon. GiDEoN WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Instructions of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Craven, U. &#38; 
Navy, commanding iL &#38; &#38; Tuscarora, regarding the search by that
vessel for Confederate cruisers.

Nan DEPARTERNT, February 1*, 1868.
	Sin:	The rebel steamer Oreto having escaped from Mobile is now on
the high seas depredating on our commerce. Our steamers are pursu
tug beth her and the Alabama in tine QuIZ and it is not unlikely that
those two rebel craft will soon leave that locality, if not captured,
and may cross the Atlaintic. Should you not hear of either of them in
that direction by the dine this communication reaches you, you will
return to Philadelphia with the Tuscarora, unless in the meantime
other rebel vessels may leave England and threaten our commerce in
the vicinity of your present cruising ground, in which case you will not
return home whilst anyprivateer is in European waters, but pursue
them

Page 83

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	83

	The Alabama and Oreto are nearly sister ships. Tf~jj~ former, how-
ever, has one sinOk( tatk Lnd the latter two.
	The Department acknowledges the receipt of~your three letteis
(LttCd, respectively, the 81st of December and the 1st arid 5th of Jan-
nary last. Noticni o your iiinouncenient of your intention to proceed
as far south as the (upe X erde [Islands], the I)epartment would state
that the U. S. S. Mohuan is now cruising in that locality.
I am, respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Commander T. A. CRAVEN,
(Jommanding U. S. S. Tu~c rora, Gibraltar.



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India SQU(tdFoil, zf the condition and movements of the United States
vessels on that station.
FLAG-STEAMER WACIIUSETT,
Santiago de Cuba, February 13, 18G3.
	DEAR SIR: I find there is an opportunity which leaves for The Havan-
nah to-morrow, and I take it to apprise you of my whereabouts and
recent movements. Sinee unite by the San Jacinto on the 3d, with the
Oneida, this vessel has been cruising round the eastern end of Cuba,
which is the around the Oreto was to take afte leaving Nassau, where
she remained thirty-six hours, and with the intention of stopJ)ing at
one of the outlying islands. I dispatched two vessels to visit all the
anchorages and to join inc off Cape Maysi, in c;sc of getting ny news
of her to follow her up rather than come to join inc. Maftitt is very
well acquainted with this locality, having eruise(i here some time whilst
in command of the Crusader, in lookrn g for slave vessels a few years
ago. lie frequented, then, most of the l)orts, an(l is familiar with. theiu,
and the probability is he vill select one of the nearest to be at hand to
intercept vessels boi nd through the Windward Passage. Many of our
nierchantmen we have encountered, but heard nothing of his depreda-
tions. Getting short of coal~, I made for this l)ass, where we have
obtained a supply. The French have ma(le Santiago de Cuba a depot
for their fleet, amid, if this cruising is tQ continue, I shall find it neces-
sary to order the Guam d up here, or rather to Cumberland Harbor,
sonic (30 miles nearer Cape Maysi, aiid a port more easy of access thau
this, for it is impossible for our gunboats to re~ ort to The llavannah
ainl Key West to seek coal and return within ten (lays, when it may be
ciTheted here in two. The authorities here have been particularly civil
and afforded us all the facilities in their power, amid my intercourse with
the governor and officials has been of the most agreeable kind. They
are far less secesh than on other parts of the islands. I return to
the Cape Maysi to-niorrow, where 1 hope to meet the vessels that went
to Key West for coal. I say notliimmg of time movements of the Alabama.
Sic, on leaving Jamaicr, undoubtedly went to windward, but as yet
we have no news of her. The last anvices of our Alabama, she was at
St. Thomas, and I hope by this tirue has captured the Retribution, a
sin II steamer tnrned into a sailing vessel. There is no fear of her
doiiig much if any damage, but fitting of vessels un(ler the Confeder-
ate flag, in Danish ports, ~vas not to be expected. If my duties in the
hot pursuit of the two pirates will permit, I shall visit St. Thomas before
my return to The llavannah

Page 84

84	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	Whilst coaling, we have been obliged to repair our boilers. The star-
board one in I)artidular has become too weak to make it bear any con-
siderable pressure. As I wrote you, shall ruu~hcr as long as we can
get speed out of her.
	Since the war began, there has been but one Confederate schooner
in this port. In haste,
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, yours, etc.,
	CIIAnLES WILKES,
[Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.]
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington.

[Telugram.]

NEW Yonw, February 13, 1863.
(I~eceived Washington 9: 50 p. in.)
	Alabama spoken February 2 in latitude 260 29 N., longitude
67~40 W.
G. W. BLUNT.
G.	V. Fox,
[Assistant Secretary of the Nary.]


Report of Commander Clary, U. S. Nary, commanding U. S. S. Tioga,
of the capture of the English schooner Avon.
U.	S. GUNBOAT TIOGA,
At Sea, Lat. 2G~ 42 N., Long. 76~ 39 IV., February 14, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the capture of the English schooner
Avon, John W. Hall, master, from Nassau, New Providence, bound to
Baltimore, United States. She is registered 37 tons burden.
	This schooners papers are irregular, her manifest only showing 340
sacks of salt, but upon searching her hold found various barrels, boxes~
cases, etc., containing liquors not specified in the manifest nor invoice
of the same; the master of the schooner stating that he did not know
what they contained. Upon this flict I shall send her to Key West, in
charge of Acting Masters Mate Jas. A. Cook, to await adjudication.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	A. G. CLARY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHAS. WILKES,
Commanding U. S. Squadron, West Indies.


Report of Gommander Nichols, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Ala-
bama, regarding various rumors relative to the movements of Confed
	erate cruisers and privateers.	U. ~. S. ALABAMA,

St. Thomas, February 15, 1863.
	SIR: I beg leave to present the following account of my proceedings
since my departure from the island of Cura~ao, on the afternoon of the
2d instant. On the morning of the 4th instant, looked in at the island
of Blanquilla, and proceeded on to I~ort of Spain, on the island of Trini-
dad, where I arrived on the 6th instant.
	Finding the English mail steamer due, I determined to remain until
her arrival. By her we learned of the destruction of the U. S. S. Hat

Page 85

OPERATIONS OF TEE ORUISERSUNION.	86

twu by the Alalmusd and the arrival of the latter vessel at Jamaica,
where she was hurriedly coaling and repairln1 on the 24th of January.
As this information was thirteen days old, deemed it useless to pro-
med to the westward in search, ad thinking itprobable that she would
at once leave those waters, ad either make for Windward Islands, or
endeavor to leave the Caribbean Sea entirely, I deemed It Judicious to
follow up the Windward Islands. This course I pursued coaling along
the islands, touching at St Pierre (Martinique), Base ~!erre (Guade.
loupe), and St Christopher, but without learnin an g of the Ike-
bass.. At St. Christopher I learned that the Retr(b..tdoe. had landed
some time last month the captain and crew of the brig J. P. BWeott on
the island of Dominica. I also heard at St. Christopher, from the U. S.
consul, that the Alabama was blockaded In Jamaica by nine United
States vessels.
This newswas brought to St Christopher by an English sloop, which
arrived while I was at anchor there. On my arrival here, on the even-
ingof the l2th,Ilearnedthe falsityof this report, and that the Ala.
bass. was atain out from Jamaica and committing farther depreda-
tions on our commerce. In my letter of January 141 mentioned the
departure of the British steamer Pearl, supposed to be intended for
running the blockade, and that another was still in port, repairing. 1.
now find that this one is gone, and report says she has gone to some
place to receive arms and commence her career as a privateg3r. She is
named the Hav,elock~ is an iron boat, side wheels three masts, square-
rigged forward, and reported to be very fast. TAe Yae.derbslt arrived
here on the evening of the 18th, and as soon as she is coaled will pro-
ceed to sea again on a cruise. I am also coaling, and as soon as ft is
completed shall cruise probably to the westward, unless I receive news
calling me in another direction. The accounts we get of the Confeder-
ate vessels are very conflicting. For instance, a British vessel arrived
here on the 21st of January reporting that on the 15th instant she
sailedin company with the Alabama for 15 miles,and the Alabama then
steamed southeast, requesting to be reported in St. Thomas. This was
nearly 700 miles from here, in a northeast 4irection. Her subsequent
movements prove that she could not have been in the place indicated.
Again, within two days the Retribution has been reported at San
Domingo, and at Dominica ten days ago. The captain of the brig .7.
P. BlIEcolt arrived here from Dominica and has resumed the charge
of his vesseL The prisoners from her I still have on board, no oppor
tunity having offered for sending them home. I have the satisfaction
of stating that the officers and crew are well.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
Re. T. NWHoLS,
Commnaesder.
Hon. GiDEoN WELLES,
Secretary of the Easy, Washington, D.C.



Re,rt of Acting Lieutenant Baldwin, U. S. Easy, eommssdiwsg U. &#38; &#38; 
anderbilt,of cruise in the West Indies, and giving i*fonssation
regarding C. &#38; S. Alabama
U. S. S. VaDnLT,
St. Thomas, February 16,1868.
	Sin:	C last had this honor on the 3d instant, from Havana, on which
day I sailed for Jamaica, intending tos~p at the Grand (Jayman, bu

Page 86

C




86	onnnon or in muisnsumoz
when I got off there in the evening, as it was thick and blowing I con-
cluded not to lose the time, but to get to Port Royal without deisy.
	I arrived there on the 8th instant. WithoUt anchoring at Port
Royal, went up to Kingston intending to fill with coal, that article.
usually being in full supply there. A Mr. Camp came on board as tine
consul of tine United States (I afterwards learned that he had only
been temporarily appointed vice-consul on the death of the consul).
From him I learned that no American vessel of war had been there;
that the Alabama had hrrived on the evening of the 20th of January,
and landed the officers and crew of the Hatteras, and had got permis-
sion to repair her damages; had taken in provisions and 100 tons of
coal, and had sailed on the evening of the 20th. While there she had
given her crew liberty, and had had the services of the police in arrest-
ing and bringing on board those who had overstaid their time, until he
had objected, when the police ceased to act. She left two or three of
her crew behind, and her paymaster, who was either discharged or
had deserted; a worthless fellow, I was told.
	Mr. Camp further told me that during the time the crew of the
Alabama were on shore, some seven or eight of them came to his office
and offered, if lie would take care ef them after, they would desert;.
that they did not want to go in the vessel again, and that some forty
or fifty more would also desert I regret to say that Mr. Camp did not
think this a matter of sufficient moment and considered himself unau-
thorized to interfere, which, of course, he need not have done in his
on person.
	Whilst off the wharf at Kingston, waiting for the breeze to moderate
to go alongside and commence coaling, for which I had arranged, I
received a communication from Commodore Dunlop, commandizig at
Port Royiil, stating that by request of the lieutenant-governor of the
island he enclosed for my information an extract from a dispatch from
her Britannic Majestys secretary for foreign, etc., which was in effect
notifying me to leave in twenty-four hours, and that I could only get,
by application, sufficient coal to take me to the nearest home port, a
this iinmediately af(~er the *90 had been allowed to take in 100 tons of
coal. I simply acknowledged the receipt of the communication and
sailed next morning.
There was a report at Kingston that the Alabama had destroyed a
vessel on the coast of San Domingo, though some eight days previously
so I went-in near Navassa and up the Windward Passage, and around
on the north side ofSan Domingo and Porto LPuertol Rico. I saw
many vessels, mostly foreign, spoke some, but could get no further
inibrmation.
117 coal being now expended, except a sufficient quantity to take
me, m case of necessity, to Key West or Havana, and as I had been
warned by the consul at the latter place not to depend absolutely on
getting a supply at this point, I came here for, information and a sup-
ply of fuel if possible to obtain it Also I found it was absolutely neces-
sary to take sufficient time to scale the boilers, which were commenc-
ing to require itba4ly. flwe have not had time to scale them since we
went into commission, it was telling largely on the increased consump-
tionofcoal,say totheestentof4or Stons with twoboilersperday.
I have arranged for 500 tons and as much more as I shall require of
anthracite coal at is per ton, alongside, giving draft on Baring
Brothers, In payment at the bank rate of the of delivery

Page 87

orni %TTOVS ~ TB (WI 9EIWVNTON.	87

	I would Y~PlWC( (ally (1111 the as I enti1ne of tlto Department to the pro-
priety of baring at tide importans point, being well up to windward,
and the central point of the im ions lines of West india bteaniers, a
permanent coal ship, for which our consul tells ia~e lie Ims permission
from the present go~arnor, ~ilso seems (ctruaely w(ll inclined to our
cause. The prerioni governor, Wilt) ([10(1 a few nsuntlmn sisico, would
only allow our coal to be stored 031 shore. This J coii$i(tcr important,
both in rkw of the peat (nolioiimy, and wulso 511w. ludi13 of 0111 ?iJaipS
now come here rejuhivg rind, they might find great uliCkulty in get-
ting it7 and were tha~y not supplied with ciec lits oil London, almost
Impossible, at all events exept at c : 0? sorWtut rates.
	Also I beg to suggest the pro 4ety 4 01 nerng, rzsy~ I ,O00 tubes hr
this ships boilers, as after. nty, forty o sixty days more steaming we
shall have to go North to get new tuher.4 wit in, matay of them being
very thin and jiving out. Nearlyone-li.lf of the resent sot have been
in the ship er~r since she w:s limIt, say seven years.
	When this ship ~ as fitted out in Oct dnr last we were only able to
get 700 or 800 made in line, ~be isustcws l.eing then so pushed with
contracts. t)therii ise m .hui- and ei.g tus are in good order. The
Allaire Works, Yew York, srpply those huhs, they having built the
engines and always done Die repsiriu~ they haie the patterns.
	.1 arrived here oii the afleinoon of the httha instant and found, Just
arrived, the It 8. 8. Ahd,e.nr. (0:iiiig.
	We have a great many rrport~:? the AlaNirna and her recent doings,
many of them quite cent ru,licI ~ v, proh vly itt aliont by those of the
various iSlfIn(htl Ol)lX35Ql li. t,tii (:1:., of ~ iomi I regret to say there are
i.any. principally, however, Isriti it :edectn. vito, ansi class, are bitterly
opposed to us.
	What I consider tvhiable us Vial the Vi I) burned either one or two
Anuerican ve%msels and laudod their news at the city of San l)omingo
on the 211th .Iannary, and sailed again, ~teerina west, oii the :10th.
	(ha the .lL she irsi a reign taMi somuiewhiere su a the northwest point of
thu kfll4 inluad. at- a:wher s aku.~r in coil, which had boon lauded there
homuietiuutt aiile e by usa Iisighisa ie~e el.
	The schjoones .1tero!uti.n~ [I:erin in :u. buiu&#38; an American schooner
asil landed her crev. at Avis Cayes ott or about the 31st, instant
lailtimo]. to get in lily coal
	i expect	Mid pd nl!h icully through scaling boilers
to sail, sav, by the 21st or 22.1. taos;gn ; :1 get laity authentic intelligence
of the Alabama lhstt I att 1 t 11 .iia l)t~tIblQ 5lli(P55, I eltahl go at
mace. At h)reseiIt m~ iahu ~n Ic, go saronnd Miami Ihtiningo and the Wind.
rtrcl cnd Thuin cliasnm::i.4, 4 front tI  brent nina-br of American yes
14lui iii shut vich:it. 114 Aiab(:Defl iii likhy to lie ~f ill Jerking in the
neighaborlmood, arid :ah~ to timid the l.ls~ on te .aorthwent side of San
IJo!tuistgo at which it is iported the ~e; L.ama had taken in coal which
was landed for her s.n:etinte sure ;~ an I~tg1isla Flail).
	Titis ship is better to lie itt vttw central point, cooled and ready to
:act (it tIle ii slant ~i bet reli.dI ritorm,mtioii i1 received, titan to cruise,
its, do yom bent, she eoiaz;mi:es so imimtaest~dy ot .oal, and, unlike screw
steamers, which an at lc:a~f hurl I thmeii (wit wader caitvas, site would
drift fast to leeward ha then ~uagTJli~ho iihtds without constatit steaming.
	As I rite this I mu; adflrcd is carg.o of 310 uns Knot cli coal, just
arrived, sat s7 I~r to: , wanh I IIbflll jm.b::blylial;e, amid wltich, with the
fioo aiafl.racite n.~ ~. -m-.n~ ~:,i i:trd. wiU itvnmiy 011 laiD 1i[)~ when I cian
continue itty cruise J~r a. ~ (line without coming into port for fuel

Page 88

88	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
At the same time, taking in this coal will not delay me, as I shall have
it in before my boilers are ready. The Department may rest assured I
shall not trifle away an hour.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0. H. B&#38; LDwnr,
Acting Lientaust, U. &#38; lftwg, Ooraessandisg.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
	$eortwg of LA. Navy, Wuahiesgtos, D. a
Lflter from the Secretary of the Navyto vera	o  s.f yeuele is
	(Oreto)froui


NAn DEnhTnn, hbnsary 16,1868.
Sm:	The Department deems it proper to advise you of the escape of
the rebel steamer Onto from Mobile. That vessel and theAlabaessa are
now on the high seas depredating on our commerce, and as our steam-
ers in the Gulf are pursuing them they may cross the Atlantic, and
recent reports would indica~ite that they are moving in that direction.
	The U. S. S. Sonora. chased a steamer on the 2d instant nearly 800
miles, which answered to the description of the Oreto, and lost sight of
her in latitude 200 37 N. and longitude 740W., the suspicious steamer
steering etstward. The Alabama is reported as having been spoken
the same day (February 2) in latitude 260 29 N., longItude 670 40 W.
The two vessels are almost sister ships, except that the Alabama has
one smokestack and the Onto, or Florida, two
	The Department enjoins vigilance on the part of yourself and other
commanders of our vessels cruising in European waters.
i sin, respectfully, etc.,
GIDEoN WaLEs,
Secretary of the Navy.
Captain Jon A. WINSLow,
	Conunanding U. &#38; Steam Sloop Waclmnsett, Cadls Spain.
Commander ANDnw BnsON,
	Ooramandissg U. &#38; &#38; Chipper., Gibraltar.
Coibmander IL 0. Main
	Obmmasdis.g U. &#38; 54p of War St Louis, Lisbon, PortugaL




Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes U S Navy, command West
India Sq.iadron, to Captain Eaaard IL S~ Navy, corn . &#38; 
(p~i~l,s~regarding the search for C.&#38; steamer, Alabama and Onto


FLAaSflnhn WAOHUsETT,
St Nicole. Mole, San Doming., February 16,1868.
	Sm: Intheeventof separatingfromzne,youwill lookinto St.Johns
[San JmJ, Porto [PuertojjBaco, on your wayto St Thomas, and obtain
any information from the U.S. consul he may be in possession o

Page 89

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	89

	On your arrival off St. Thomas you will ascertain whether there are
any United States or rebel vessels in port. In case of finding the Oreto
or Alabama you must not permit these pirates to ~scape you, even if
found in neutral waters,
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[CHARLES WILKES,]

	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Captain S. F. HAZARD, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Steamer Oneida.


Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Commander Ridgely, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. S. Santiago de Cuba, relative to cruise in search of C. S. steam-
ers Oreto and Alabama.

FLAG-STEAMER WACIIUSETT,
St. Ni colas Mole, San Domingo, February 16, 1863.
	SIR: The appointed ten days having expired, and not meeting you,
I can no longer delay the execution of the duties I have in view. I
need not repeat to you that the probability of falling in with the Ala-
bama and Oreto here or off Cape Maysi corresponds with the time of the
passage of the steamers to and from Aspinwall off Cape San Antonio.
	Between the intervals of the passage of the California mail boats, you
might visit either Cumberland Harbor, the westward of Cape Maysi, or
Aux Cayes, Thrt au Prince, Kingston, Santiago de Cuba, or Abaco and
the eastern islands of the Bahamas, with a view to obtain information
from our commercial agents. I deem it necessary to say that your des-
tination at any time should be unknown. Commander Emmons should
be furnished with a copy of these orders, and with him you will consult
as to the performance of the important duties assigned to you.
	In the event of your falling in with the Oreto or Alabama, or obtain-
ing reliable information in regard to their whereabouts, you will lose
no time in following them up. That being finished, you will return to
St. Nicolas Mole, where you will hear from iiie, should I have reached
the place, which I expect to do in ten days. Coal can be obtained at
Santiago de Cuba. If you should have dispatches for me you xviii ~e
at St. Nicolas Mole at or about the time 1 designated, and await my
coming.
	The ~1emsbo1c will probably reach St. Nioclas Mole before I do.
I am, very respectfully, your obe(lient servant,
[CHARLES WILKES,]
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West india Squadron.

	Commander D. B. RIDG~ELY, U. S. Navy,

Commanding Steamer Santiago de Cuba.


Report of Commander Ronekendorif, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
San Jacinto, of arrival at N~w York from the West Indies.

U.	S. S. SAN JACINTO,
Off Navy Yard, New York, February 16, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of this ship, having left the
Great Bahama Bank, near Lobos [Cay] light, at noon on the 4th instant

Page 90

90	OlERAI~IONS OF ThE CRUISERSUNION.
While steaming on my way to join Auliniral Wilkes, then at anchor on
the bank, on the morning of the 30th of January at 7:45 a. in., when
10 miles distant from Lobes [Cay] light, and 4 hiles distant from the
bank, the pro her of this ship broke off short up to the hub and fell
so as to hang by one of its flanges between the stern and rudder posts.
I made sail and succeeded in getting to anchor in Yj fathoms of water
on the Great Bank, and immediately made preparations for relieving
the extremity of the ship of the weight of the propeller, which I suc-
ceeded in doing on the following morning, the 31st of January, and
soon after got up purchases and got it inboard.
Very respectfblly, your obedient servant,
WX. BoNonhDonn,
Commander.
Hon. GiDEoN WELLS,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, 1). 0.


InstructIons of the Secretary of the Navy to Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy
commanditg U. &#38; &#38; AfoMean, in view of the probable movement o.k
C. &#38; steamers Alabama and Florida to European waters.

Nm DEnzTnNT, February 17,1868.
Sn: Information has doubtless reached you before this of the dep-
redations committed upon our commerce by the rebel steamer Crete,
which has escaped from Mobil~ and of the sinking of the Hatteras by
the rebel sibamer Alabama, off Galvestot Those two piratical craft
are closely pursued by our steamers in the 0u1t and will doubtless soon
seek some other waters for their operations, unless captured. Recent
reports indicate or lead to the impression that they are moving east-
ward, and it behooves our cruisers on the European coast, and those
abroad seeking those steamers, to be vigilant
	On the 2d instant the U. S S. Sonomna chased a suspicions steamer
which answered to the description of the Crete nearly 300 miles, and
lest sight of her in latitude 200 37 N. and longitude 750 W, the sus-
picious steamer at the time heading eastward. On the same day the
Alabama is reported as having been spoken in latitude 200 29 N.,
longitude (70 40 W. The two vessels are almost sister ships, except
that the Alabama has one smokestack and the Crete, or Florida, two.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GiDEoN WELLws
Secretary of tie Navy.
Captain 0.8. GLissox,
S. Steam Sloop Mo/dean,
Commanding St. Vincent, Cape Verde [IslandsJ


Order of Acting Re-Admiral Wilkes U S Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Captain ifasard, 0 &#38; Navy, commanding IL &#38; &#38; 
Oneida, to cruise in search of C. &#38; steamers Alabama and Florida.

FL.w-Snaxn WAoHusxTT,
Le Mole, San Domingo, February 18, 186&#38; 
Sn:	You wiU cruise witji the Oneida off the eastern end of Cuba,
keeping generally within view of Cape Mayui, and occasionally stretch-
ing across the channel to St. &#38; icolas Mols

Page 91

OPERATIONS OP THE (JRUISElISTThIIoN.
91
	Itisprobahle that youwill fall in with one or morevessels of the
XVest India Squadron, and from them may obtain information which
will be of importance. It is expected that the Sai.tiago de (lube and
B. it. OsgIer will reach this cruising ground In a few da5~ when you
will be able to till up with coal from them, if necessary the arrival
of the Santiago do Cuba you ivill be relieved from tins important duty,
and after giving Commander Bidgely all the information you possess
you will proceed to St Thomas, where you will meet the Alabama,
Commander Nichols.
	It is presumed our coal will last ten or twelve days, as it will not
be necessary to keep your vessel constantly under headway. Five
days of coal will suffice to take you to St. Thomas, where you will be
able to till up from the (Jemebok
	Should any information be received of the whereabouts of the Ala-
basaa, or *90, and Onto you will take the Alabama, Commander Nichols,
m company with youm pursuit I enclose orders to Commander Nich-
ols to accompany you in case you should deem it necessary. Should
you not find any news of either of the above vessels at St. Thomas you
will make a cruise to 1ointe ft litre, (luadeloupe, Martinique, and other
islands, as you may judge necessary, to carry out the search for the
rebel vessels, having also special reference to their supply coal vessels,
of which latter our consuls may give you the necessary information.
	Should the (I emebole be found at St Thomas you will supply yourself
with coal from her, unless it can be bought at reasonable rates. If the
(Jemeboic can discharge her coal at St. Thomas let it be done. I desire
to retain a sufficient quantity there in case of need. The 6emebok is to
be dispatched to The Havannab, to stop at St. Nicolas Mole, with
what information you may possess, addressed to Commander Ridgely.
	I call your attention to the fact that on the Cape Maysi side of this
passage you will meet the vessels coming from the north, and on the
Haiti side those coming from the south. Steamers boun4 inwall
pass hero between the 7th and 30th, 18th and 20th, and 28th and 30th
of each month, and returningfrom Aspinwall on the 9th,lOth, and 29th,
or thereabouts. In case you should meet with either of the mail boats
you will afford them safe convoy through thi~ passage, if they desire it
In the event of your falling in with. the Onto or Alabama, in the
Windward Passage or elsewhere, the execution of these orders may be
dispensed with1 your own judgment must, of course, then guide you
in effecting their pursuit, which is to continue until their capture. If
Commander Itidgely has letters or dispatehe~ for me, you will direct
him to send them to ilavana by the earliest opportunity. After your
cruise to windward you will return to St. Thomas and hold yourself
iii readiness for service in pursuit of the rebels, if reliable information
of their whereabouts is obtained.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
India
	Acting Rear-A4mirai, ~4HA~s Wnns~,,
Captain S. F. JIaniD, U. S. Navy,
	Commanding Steamer Oneida.
	P. 8.I have directed *2,000 to be placed in the hands of your pay-
master, $1,000 for the use of your vessel and *1,000 for the Alabama,
which you will turn over to Commander Nichols when you meet him.
I desire you to communicate your proceedings to me at Havana by
every opportunity

Page 92

92	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Commander Nichols, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. S. Alabama, regarding the search for the ~iJonfederate cruisers.

FLAG-STEAMER WACHUSETT,
Le Mole, San Domingo, February 18, 1863.
	SIR:	I have had no means of answering your letter of the 14th Jau-
nary reporting your vessel. I have endeavored to reach St. Thomas,
but the conditiou of the Wacituscit has been such as to preclude my
doing it. The Oneida, Captain iIaz~ ~d, will join you. You will make
him acquainted with all that concerns the service and joiu hini in the
cruise I have directed him to make to the Weather [Wiudwardi Islands,
after which, unless you should get traces of the Alabama or Oreto, you
will returu to St. Thomas and hold yourself in rea(liness, with the
Oneida, for service in pursuit of the rebels, if reliable information of
their whereabouts should be obtained.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
	Acting Rear-A dmi~ al, Commanding West India Squadron.
Commandei~E. T. NlcuoLs, U. S. Navy,
Comm a adiny Stcamcr Alabama.
	P. 5.Captain IL zard will give you $1,000 for the use of your vessel.
I desire you to communicate your proceedings to me at Havana,
monthly, and also any information that may be of interest to me or the
service.
Respectfully,
C.	W.


f~eport of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Fytinge, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp, c~f arrival at St. Thomas, West Indies, with
statement of plans for pursuit of C. S. steamers Alabama and Florida.

U.	S. Sui~ SHEPHERD KNAPP,
St. Thomas, February 19, 1863.
	SIR: I beg to report the arrival here of this ship after the rapid
passage of eight and one-half days.
	I did not find Admiral Wilkes here, but the Vanderbilt and Alabama
were. We have just received news of the destruction of the Jacob
Bell, of New York, from China for New York, by the pirate Florida,
and on consultation of commanders we have determined to start in
varie(I lines of pursuit, the Vanderbilt and Alabama steaming at once
to windward and the Shepherd Knapp to go round through Sail Rock
Passage northward of the islands, and then to return here to gain
report from the steamers whether the Florida is coaling at St. Pierre,
Poiiite ~ Pitre, or any port to windward, when this ship will join the
others to blockade her wherever found in port.
	The Florida destroyed the Jacob Bell on the 12th in latitude 240
01 N., longitude 65~ 58 W. On that day I was in the same longitude,
but 300 miles north of him, and on my way south must have passed
near him, but not in sight. On the evening of making St. Thomas I
made a steam bark looking like the Alabama, and stood for him unde~
a press of canvas, beating to quarters for action, in thorough read

Page 93

93
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
ness to engage, but she proved a legitimate English steamer, carrying
her Majestys mails. I shall scour these seas iii hot pursuit, and God
defend the right.
	Our Government issues are perfectly impassable here for payment of
water, pilotage, and other coutingeuts. Be pleased to send me at this
port authority to draw against Baring Brothers for the sum of 1,000.
In any foreign ports it is impossible to use our currency. This credit
sent to me under cover to the U. S. consul here will facilitate the
pecuniary contingents of the ship.
Your obedient servant,	llv. ST. C. EYTINGE,

Acting [Volunteer] Lieutenant, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Acting Lieutenant Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Vanderbilt, of arrival at St. Thomas, West Indies, of officers and crew
of American ship Jacob Bell, reporting destruction of that vessel by
0. S. S. Florida.

U. S. S. VANDERBILT,
St. Thomas, February 20, 1863.
	SIR: I have~ the honor to enclose duplicate of my communication of
the 16th February, from this place.
	Yesterday afternoon there arrived here the Danish bark (formerly an
American vessel) Morning Star, bringing the captain, four passengers,
officers, and crew of the American ship Jacob Bell, of New York, from
Foo-Chow, China, bound to New York, which ship was burned by the
rebel privateer Florida on the 12th of this month in latitude 240 01
N., longitude 650 58 W. Oh the 14th they were put on board the
Morning Star, 100 miles north of the island of Sombrero. There were
forty-one persons in all.
	Captain Frisbee, of the Bell, reports that, in his opinion, she has but
little coal left, say three or four days supply. Under this view Captain
Nichols, of the U. S. S. Alabama, and myself have decided to run for
Martinique first, and not finding or hearing of the Florida there, to
examiue Dominica and Guadeloupe.
	The Alabama sailed this morning at daylight, and I shall be off this
afternoon. At the time the news arrived, my engine and boilers were
adrift, the engineers having been at work overhauling. I shall not lose
one moment in getting off as early as possible.
	The U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp, arrived here two days since and will
work around to leeward of these islands for the Alabama.
	I shall have taken in, say, 240 tons of coal, for which we draw on
Messrs. Baring Bros., Loud on, at sixty days sight for the amount.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. II. BALDWIN,
Acting Lieutenant, U. S. Navy, Commanding Vanderbilt.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, P. C

Page 94

94	OPERATIONS OF THE CV~ lASERSUNION.

1i~epoit of (Japtatn (ilisson, U. S. Nary, eofltm(UUbJtff U. S. iS. iIIohw(HL, oj
craise in search of (Jonfederate cruisers on the African (oa~t.
U.s.	S. MoiucA~,
Porto Grande, St. Vincent, Cape Verde [Islands], Pebr nary 20, 1863.
	SIR:	I have to report to the honorable Secretary of the Navy the
arrival of the U. S. S. ~1fohican at this port. Since my last letter of
20th Deceml)er I have visited all the islands in this gToup, and have
eruise(l in the vicinity and on toward the Cape ot Coed hope, w th~
out seeing or hearing anything of the Alabama. A fexv ho~is after
I anchored at Porto Praya, the IL S. frigate Sabine Commodore
ltinggold, came in. On the 25th l)eccmber we obtaine(i news front a
French schooner that a suspicious steamer had beeii seen olf the island
of Fogo. I sailed immediately in search of her, carrying out the sug~
ge~tions of Commodore llinggold. Enclosed yoi will find his letier~
with my answer to it on my return to Porto Praya. Commodore Ring-
gold sailed from Porto Praya on the 2d January, 1863, after giving me
what provisions he could spare.
	I have to inform the honorable Secretary of the ~avy that coal has
recently been landed at Porto Praya from a Prussian ha i k that was
condemned at the port. so that coal can now be had a~ U. at port, an(l
also at St. Vincent. These are the only islands in this group where
coal can be obtained.
	1 shall continue to cruise in the vieinity of these :staiids and on
toward the Cape of Good hope. lookino into I~orto Priri and St. Viii-
cent frequently, until I can get such i ifot ii dion ih A will warrant iiiy
leaving thi~ cruising giou~id Jaid down in niv iisti:ations. My provi-
sions will be entirely exhausted by the 15th t ~jn~i, ~ia1 I shall he
con~pellcd to leave these islaiids in tiia to mh ~Olil 1)1 ice where pro-
visions can be had, nniess seine shovld n i~x c here in the incaniinie.
	Tue English mail stea~~~er has ai vved ~iOt we have ncws that I lie
290 is in the West Indies, hat so ioi~ a ~ia his eirpscd since she cap-
tured the mail steamer that 1 do not tl~iak it wenid be prudent thr inc
t(; leave our large number of whalers iii this Nieiiiity ini~iroteeted. I
sail in the morning on a cruise to the soathiwird. The otficers and crew
continue to enjoy goo(1 health, and oni ship is in splendid order.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. (~Lisso~,
Captain, U. S. Nary.
lion. GIDEON WELLES.
Secretary of the Nary, Uashinyten, 1). (1.

Order of Rear-Admiral Ph rrayat, I . S. Na 1,12 rommamulinq Western Calf
Blockading Sqaadron, to (aptain 11(1 raid, U. S. Nary, eennnanding
U. S. Oneida.
U.	S. iiEA(~SllLl. 1! \ThVFORI),
aiis. february 20, 1863.
	Sin : Upon the receipt oF I his order ~~n w ill proceed with the U. S.
steam sleep Oneida, under vent conin~anQ to your station iii this
5(luadroiL
Respectfully,
1).	(1. VARRAGITT,
	Rear-Adin iral, Comm and~ng I Veslern Cu if Ltloekad ing Squadron.
	Captain S. F. lIAzAun, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. 8. 86 (till Nuep Os ei4a.

See Vol. L jip. 597, ~O6

Page 95

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUJSERSUNLON.	95

NQ)oit of I/ic co in mu dan t nary qard, Mare Island, Cal., transmit itting
COjflCS 0/ instructions to the comutandimmy officer of U. S. s/tip (Jya)mc and
letter to Brigadier- General Wright, U. S. Army, r~jarding defenses of
San Francisco.
COMMANDANTS OFFICE,
Nary Yard, ]Jlicre Island, Cal., February 20, 1863.
	Sin:	I have the honor to enclose herewith a COI)Y (No. 1) of my
instructions to the commander of the (1yane, and a copy ot a letter
(No. 2) addressed to Brigadier-C eneral Wright, in regard to the
cletinises of San Francisco.
I remain, sir, very respectft~lly, your obedient servant
Thos. 0. SnLFnn)cm,
(Jontmnandant.
	lion. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Nary, Was/i ington, 1). 0.

[Eric1o~ure No. 1.]


COMMANDANT~S OFFICE,
Navy lard, Mare Island, Cal., Febraam-y 10; 1863.
	Sin: In coiiseqnence of rel)reselltations from Brigadier-General
Wright, commanding the military departn ient of Calilori tia, tli at al ipre-
hensions exist in regard to the passage of a rebel steamer by the forts
in San Francisco harbor in a fog, or in a dark itight, I deeiii it impor-
tant that a man-of-war be anchored in those waters to cooperate with
the forts against attack, and to afford l)rotection to that part of the
(-it\- lying beyond the ~ L~C~ guns. will, tiiereioie on
~ onr arrival at San Francisco, anchor the (Jyamte iii such a location as
will likely enable you to render the most efficient aid fir the defense of
hat portion of the city which can not be covered by the guns of Fort
Alcatraz.
	You will remain there nutil relieved by the Saqinaw, or s~nie other
vessel, with springs on your cables aiid fully l)r(~parc(1 for actioli at all
times.
	Should you have any doubts regarding the best positioii in which to
l)lace the (Jyane for the purpose herein named, you will be j)leased to
consult the military commandant.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
THOS. 0. SELFTILDGE,
Coininmia mtdant.
	The COMMANDER OF THE fT S. Snii CYANE,
Saint Francisco, (Jul.

[Enclosure No. 2.]


COMMANDANTS OFFICE,
Nary Yard, Mare fsiamtd, CaL, Fcbmna my 10, 1863.
	Sm:	I have the honor to inform you that the (Jyamie, 50011 expected
fioa sea, has been ordered to remain at San Francisco for defensive
service beyond the range of the guns of Fort Alcatraz until relieved
by some other vessel.
	I would respectfully suggest for the 1)1-oteetlon of the city of San
Francisco, or that part uncovered by the gnus of Alcatraz, that earth-
works be thrown up on Yerba Buena Island, and a battery of guns
planted on Itincon Point. This would bring a cross lire on any vessel
which might get past Alcatraz on the city side

Page 96

96	OPERATIONS 01? THE CRUISERSUNION.

	In connection with this subject allow me to advise that the collector
of the port of Sail Francisco have all inward-bound steamers boarded
under the guns of Fort Point. This would effectually preclude the
possibility of any steamers getting in under false colors.
I remain, very respectfully, your obedient servant
THOS 0. SELFRIDGE,
Commandant.
Brigadier-General G. WRIGHT,
Commanding ]Jiilitary Department,
Headquarters, ASan Francisco, Cal.


Order of F. ill. Rrskine, esq., acting excise officer, Prince Ruperts, West
Indies, to Commander Nichols, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Ala-
bama, to leave that port.
PRINCE ItUPERTS, February 22, 1863..
	SIR:	By the proclamation of her Majesty Queeii Victoria, American
war vessels are not allowed to use British ports, unless when in distress
or in immediate want of provisions. You will therefore see the necessity
of at once leaving this port if the above conditions do not apply to you.
Jam, sir, your obedient servant,
B.	M. ERSKINE,
Acting Excise Officer.
[B. T.] NICHOLs, Esq.,
Commander, U. S. S. Alabama.


Letter from 6~ommander Nichols, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Ala-
bania, to F. M. Ershine, esq., acting excise officer, Prince Ruperts, West
Indies, etpressing surprise at the official discourtesy of the latter.

U.	S. S. ALABAMA,
Prince Rupert Bay, February 22, 1863.
	SIR:	Your communicatioii of this date is received. I have the honor
to inform you that this vessel is not in distress, neither is she in want
of provisions. I have been in a British port within the past three
weeks, unmolested in any manner, and am at a loss to account for this
present act of official discourtesy.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
B~. T. NICIIoLS,
Commander.
E M. ER5KINE, Esq.,
Acting Excise Officer.


Report of Commander Mann, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship St.
Louis, of arrival at Cape Verde Islands, and the absence of Confed-
erate cruisers in those waters.
U.	S. SHIP ST. LOUIS,
Island of St. Vincent, Cape Verde Islands, February 24, 1863.
	SIR:	I had the honor of addressing a letter from Lisbon to the
Department of date the 6th instant, informing hit] of my intention to visit
these islands

Page 97

OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSTJNION.	97

	On my arrival here on the 22d instant T met with the steamer
Mohican, Captain Gliss9n, who informed me that he had been cruising
hereabouts for some time, but had imot heard of an~ rebel cruisers, nor
of any interference with our commerce iu these waters. He sailed
yesterday on a cruise, to return again soon.
	This harbor being the regular, and I believe the only, depot for coals
in this group renders it important that a steamer should be kept here.
A quantity of coal has been landed at Porto Praya, Island of St. Jago
[Santiago], but that I am informed was from accident of shipwreck,
and I believe that it is the intention of Captain Glisson to purchase
that coal for immediate use, and thereby deprive others from
obtaining it.
	Captain Glisson being without money for his ship, and there being
no facilities here for drawing properly, I have at his request supplied
him with $2,500, for which the paymaster has proper receipts and
vouchers.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	M. C. MARIN,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	[Commander.]
Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India ~Squadron, of arrival at St. Thomas, West Indies.

FLAG-STEAMER WACIIUSETT,
St. Thomas, February 25, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report my arrival here yesterday with the
Oneida. I found here the U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp, Acting Volun-
teer Lieutenant Commanding H. S. Eytinge, who reported to me. The
Vanderbilt arrived to-day, having been for the past few days on a
cruise to windward. I shall remain here only long enough to coal and
plug some leaky tubes.
I am, very respeetfally, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,

Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, I). C.



Capture of the Peterhoff, February 25, 1863.

Report of Acting Rear-Admiraj Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, of the
seizure, by the U. S. S. Vanderbilt, Acting Lieutenant Baldwin, U. S. Navy, of steamer
Peterhoff.

U.	S. FLAG-STEA1~IEP WACHUSETT,
St. Thomas, February 28 [26], 1863.
	SIR:	To-day [yesterday] the U. S. S. Vanderbilt arrived off this port
just as the Peterhoff, one of the steamers on the list furnished by the
Department, was about leaving the port. I dispatched an officer to
her to direct Captain Baldwin to overhaul her beyommd the limits. This
he did, when, finding her of doubtful character, he returned, leaving
	N W RYOL II	

Page 98

98	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.

his boarding officer in charge of her for safe-keeping. On receiving his
report, I at once directed her capture and a prize crew to be put on
board, and ordered her to Key West for adjudication, the Vanderbilt then
to return and anchor, which she did the next morning. In the mean-
time I had determined to proceed to The Iiavannah iu the Vanderbilt to
look after some of the vessels of the sqnadron, and meet any other ves-
sels that may have been sent to join the squadron, having heard from
Lieutenant Commanding Baldwin that the Juniata and others would be
sent. I concluded to leave the Waehnsett at anchor in this port to
watch some contraband runners, and be i)repared, as soon as possible,
in the event of their sailing, to follow and examine them. The Oneida
was ordered to till up with coal and prepare for sea. Having from the
reports of Captain Baldwin reason to expect that the Alabama, Coin-
mander Nichols, was off Puerto Rico, I determined to meet her and
give her orders to join the Oneida on a crnise through the Wiudward
Islands.
I am, very, respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
	Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Acting Lieutenant Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Vanderbilt, of the cap-
ture of the British steamer Peterhoff.


U.	S. S. VANDERBILT,
Qtf St. Thomas, February 25, 18G3.
	SIR:	1 have the honor to report that I have seized the British
steamer Peterhoff as a prize and have ordered Acting Master B. Lewis
to take charge of her to Key West for adjudication. The circumstances
of the capture are as follows:
	This afternoon I came off St. Thomas with the intention of sending
in a boat for inlbrmation, when I received an order from Rear-Admiral
Wilkes, who was in the harbor, to search the Peterhoff, which vessel
had just sailed. In compliance I boarded her some 5 miles oft~ the
harbor and found his papers quite irregular. lie had only a certified
manifest for seven boxes of tea, wh ~reas he had a cargo of kegs, cases,
and boxes for which he had no certified manifest. He had seven pas-
sengers, yet he told the boarding officer he had no passenger list. He
cleared for Matamnoras, Mexico, and has no other official papers, except
a bill of health from the Mexican consul ~nd a permit to leave the
harbor of St. Thomas. I learn front one of her crew that she has field-
pieces aL)d arms on board.
	Her passengers, during my absence to communicate with the admi-
ral, were disposed to be quite violent, and in fact gave the officer then
in charge (Ensign Alexander) some uneasiness as to whether he would
not be obliged to nse force. In fine, sir, I think there is little doubt
she will prove a lawful prize; she has run the blockade before. There
were no other United States vessels in sight at the time of capture.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
C.	H. BALDWIN,
Acting Lieutenant, U. S~ Navy, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 99

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	99

Report of Acting Lieutenant Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Vanderbilt, of cruise
and seizure of British steamer Peterhoff.

U.	S. S. VANDERBILT,
Barbados, March 7, 1863.
	SIR: As I had the honor of informiiig the Department in my coni-
munication from St. Thomas, under date February 20, I sailed the
same evening to join the U. S. S. Alabama at St. Pierre, Martinique,
which port 1 reached at daylight on the 22d. The Alabama having
just arrived oft the harbor, Commander Nichols communicated with
our consul, I remaining outside. He gained no information of the
Florida, however. The Alabama then examined the island of Dominica
while 1 went to Pointe ?~ Pitre, Guad eloupe, arriving there the same
afternoon. I could hear nothing, however, and left next morning, meet-
ing, as agreed, the Alabama off Basse Terre, on the western side of
that island.
	After consulting with Captain Nichols Ii proceeded to Isle de Ayes, a
guano island about 100 miles to leeward, arranging that the Alabama
should go to Sombrero and the Anegada Passage and toward the north
side of Puerto Rico, and meet me in the Mona Channel, I reaching the
south side of Puerto Rico and the anchorage of the Virgin Passage
first.
	I found nothing at the Isle de Ayes, and after looking among the
islands in the Virgin Passage, went off St. Thomas, intending to send
a boat in for information.
	As I got off the harbor the En~lish steamer Peterhoff was coming
out and at th&#38; same time I received an order from Acting Rear-Admiral
Wilkes, who was at anchor in the harbor, to search her and then come
in and anchor.
	On searching the Peterhoft, I determined to hold her and communi-
cate the proofs to the rear-admiral, who fully agreed with me that she
was undoubtedly a lawful prize. As I wrote the 1)epartment at the
time, I put a prize crew on board and ordered her to Key West for
adjudication, and returned to St. Thomas next morning, the 26th, on
the afternoon of which day Rear-Admiral Wilkes shifted his flag to this
ship.
	For the movements of this vessel since, I would respectfully refer
you to the admirals dispatches.
	I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	II. BALDWIN,
Acting Lieutenant, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, trans-
mitting correspondence with Captain Tatham, R. N., regarding the capture of steamer
Peterhoff.

U.	S. FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
St. Thomas, March 15, 1863.
	Sm: Though not of much consequence, I deem it proper to the
Department to enclose a letter I received from Captain Tathaum, of
II. B. M. S. Phacton, relative to the Peterhoff. It will be seen that the
object was to elicit information from me relative to her capture, no
doubt intended for the benefit of time English rebel agents at this port,
which I did not feel disposed to afford, especially as, in my convers

Page 100

100	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

tion during a visit Captain Tatham made me, I had declined to answer
any questions whatever. I sent my reply forthwith and heard no more
of the business.
	I have purposely kept all here in doubt as to the capture of the
Peterhojj in order to prevent its going to England by the steam packet,
and therefore interfere with vessels coming to this port to refit and coal
before attempting to run the blockade, as it gives us a doubic chance of
effecting their capture. It is only recently that the contraband run-
ners have resorted to this locality.
	I may also mention that on a visit of Governor Ilothe to me, he also
attempted to elicit information upon the same subject, but without suc-
cess. He attempted to excuse the affiuir of the fitting of the Retribu-
tion and Dixie, but as all the statements and facts of the case had
gone to the Government, I declined any other reference to the subject.
lie was evidently very desirous of exonerating himself from all blame
or connivance with the parties who practiced the deception upon him,
and lie told nine that in future he would, be more guarded and on the
alert to prevent a recurrence of this infraction of the neutrality by the
Danish officers.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WiLKES,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.
[Enclosures.1

H.	[B.] M. SHIP PHAETON,
St. Thomas, March 14, 18G3.
	SIR: With reference to your verbal explanation on the capture of
the British steamer Peterhoff in sight of this harbor, on the 25th of
February, by the U. S. S. Vanderbilt (which left this l)ort apparently
under your orders and instructions for that purpose), I have the honor
to acquaint you that after full enquiry of the British acting consnl at
this port I am instructed that the papers of the Peterhoff were not
informal; that she was cleared for iNlatamoras, and that her passengers
had passports obtained from the ~Jexican consul in London.
	You were kind enough to inform inc that if the capture~was found
illegal the Peterhoff would be released, lint, sir, I may be permitted to
express my regret and fear that-in this case an innocent vessel has been
sent for judgment, to the im~jury and alarm of commerce.
	I can not conclude this letter without thanking you for your courteous
reception, and assuring you that I have not the slightest desire to inter-
fere with the fullest exercise of belligerent rights on the high seas.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
EDW. TATIIAA,
Captain and Senior Officer, Barbados Division.
	Acting Rear-Admiral WILKES,
Commander in Chief of United States Fleet in the West Indies.


U.	S. FLAG~STEAMER YANIIEEBILT,
St. Thomas, March 14, 1863.
	SIR: I have just received your communication of this date, and in
reply to its contents beg leave to say that you have misunderstood m

Page 101

OPERATIONS OF THE CHU4SERSUNION.	101

if you interpreted my observations relative to the Peterhoff as a
verbal explanation of her capture. I expressly forbore any conversa-
tion on the subject, and for no other reason whatever than that it was
a subject on which I did not permit myself to speak. In your infer-
ence that the capture was made, I gave you no grounds, neither can I
consider it of any moment what the British acting consuls enquiries
may have led him to infer, or to instruct you as to the Peterhoffs
papers. If the Peterh off should have been sent in for adjudication the
courts will decide these points, and I have every reason to believe that
should such have been the case it will bc found that there was ample
grounds for so doing in the exercise of the belligerent rights now exist-
ing on the high seas.
	Reciprocating your courteous expressions and the pleasure of having
made your acquaintance,
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,

Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
	Captain Enw. TATHAM,
Senior Officer, Barbados Division.

Letter from F. Kohl, esq., to Hon. 3. P. Benjamin, Secretary of State for the Confederate States,

transmitting a report of the capture of the steamer Peterhoff by U. S. 5, Vanderbilt.

HousToN, TEx., April 20, 1863.
	SIR: Before leaving England in January last the Hon. Mr. Mason
intrusted to me a package of dispatches addressed to you, containing
full copies of all such, from both himself and Mr. Slidell, as had to be
destroyed or were otherwise lost before reaching you. I am sorry to
say that the copies shared the fate of the originals, as I was compelled
to throw them overboard or let them fall into the hands of our enemies.
Thinking it of possible interest to you to have a full report of the cap-
ture of the steamer Peterhoff, on which I was a passenger, I enclose you
a copy of the report made to Lloyds by their agent for Matamoras, Mr.
S. J. Iledgate, who was a fellow-passenger.
	The mails were still with the vessel when, on the 16th of March, I
left her at Key West. They also contain some dispatches to you from
Mr. Slidell, which had been intrusted to a fellow-passenger, Mr. P. J.
Edwards, who, by Mr. Masons advke, placed them in the mail. I
understood at Key West that Mr. Seward had given.positive orders not
to break any post-office seals in the mails, but to send them to him at
Washington for his inspection. As Lord Lyons was informed of their
existence lou g before they reached Mr. Seward, I suppose the necessary
steps were taken by him to keep them from being opened, and we may
have hopes of their getting to their destination after some delay.
	Hoping that you will command my services whenever they may be of
use to you,
I remain, your obedient servant,
F.	MOUL.
Hon. J. P. BENJAMIN,
Secretary of State.
[Enclosure.l

KEY WEST, FLA., March 7, 1863.
	SIR: I have to report for the information of the committee that the
screw steamship Peterhojf, Captain Jarman, left Falmouth for St

Page 102

102	OPERATIONS OF THE CRIJISERSIJNION.

Thomas and Matamoras on the evening of 27th January, and after
four and one-half days of rough weather and heavy seas in the channel
and bay of Biscay the remainder of the voyage ~vas without particular
incident until the morning of Friday, the 20th February, when we
were boarded by a boat from a small schooner under the Dutch flag.
which we took for a pilot boat, but which proved to be otherwise.
Shortly after we perceived a steamer approaching us, which, when it
got nearer, hoisted the United States flag. The Pcterhoff had the
British ensign flying, and was proceeding on her course for the harbor
of St. Thomas, close to the shore of St. John Island. The United States
steamer fired a blank charge and then a shotted gun. The shot passed
the Peterhoff a short distance ahead; we had no sail set at the time,
but the engine was immediately stopped. A boat from the United
States steamer boarded us while in Danish waters, as you will see from
the following crossbearings, taken by Captain J. at the time, 8 a  in.:

Buck Island, W. ~ N.
Hundu [Ho da] Island, N. W., distant 2 miles.
Frenchman Cap, S. W. by W. j W.

	The boarding officer said lie came from the U. S. S. Alabama. He
examined the Peterhoffs papers, and allowed her to proceed, declining
to endorse his visit and examination on the plea that lie had no
authority to do so.
	The Peterhoff remained in St. Thomas Harbor for the purpose of
completing her supply of coal till about noon of the 25th February.
During her stay Admiral Wilkes, of Trent notoriety, arrived in harbor
with the U. S. steamers Waehusett and Oneida and declared publicly
here tliat.the Alabama should have made a prize of the Peterhoff. in
going out of the harbor it was found that the engiiie was disabled, an({
the ship stood out under easy sail. Outside we saw the U. S. S. Van-
derbilt coining np under steam ; she exchanged signals with the admiral
inside, and, as we heard afterwards, was ordered to follow and over-
haul us. Between I and 2 p. m. she overtook and ordeied the Peter-
hoff to be hove to. At 2 p. in. a boat boarded us, the officer remain-
ing below about three-quarters of an hour with Captain J., examining
the papers of the ship. lie left for the Vanderbilt, directing the Peter-
hoff to be kept hove to till his return, which was about 3:30 p. in., when
he stated that the papers were not quite satishictory, and requested
Captain Jarman to go on board the Vanderbilt with the siiip~s papers,
and saying that he was authorized to say that if Captain J. refused, an
armed boats crew would be sent to take him by force. Captain J.
said he held a commission in the royal navy reserve, and had charge of
her Majestys mail for Matamnoras, that he would not leave his ship,
especially after the threat which had been held out, but that they were
welcome to come on board, examine the papers, and search the ship.
He repeated this on deck in presence of myself and the other six pas-
sengers, who all protested as well as myself, against his leaving the
ship. The boat left, Captain J. assuring the officer in charge that the
papers were open to the inspection of any officers sent from the Van-
derbilt, but that he would not allow them to he taken, nor would lie
leave his ship with them, unless compelled by force to do so.
	At 4 p. in. we were boarded by two armed boats from the Vanderbilt,
and Lieutenant [Ensign 1 Alexander, U. S. Navy, took temporary charge
of the Peterhoff till the Vanderbilt could communicate with St. Thomas.
Captain J. ordered the mate, Mr. Bound, to haul down the ensign,bnt was
prevented from doing so by Lieutenant Ensign] Alexander, who ordered
it to be kept flying. One lieutenant, 1 masters mate, 2 en gmneers, and 2

Page 103

	ornATIOn OF THE (3EUISERSUNION.	108
armed men were sent on bond; one man was sent to the wheel and a
United States engineer took possesuionof the engine room. TheVender.
hilt left us and Immediately steamed back to St ThqDas. Our crew had
to stop work and our engineers to discontinue their examination of our
disabled machinery. At? :OSp.m.,StThomastime,Lieutenant [Enslgnj
Alexander ordered Captain J.,hismate, and alithepassengers togodown
to the cabin and to remain there, and an ned seaman was placed on
guard ovens. He said he hoped that he would not keep us long there.
No one but the steward permitted to go out of the cabin without asking
permission through the sentry. 9p.m.,again boarded bya boatfrom the
Vanderbilt. Officer came down into the cabin to deliver a message from
Captain Baldwin, U. S. Navy, to Captain Jarman to give up his papers
thatthey might be senton board the Venderbilt, or that Captain 3. would
repair on board with them. Captain 3. said he would not give up his
papers to anyone but the British consul or to his orders that he would
not give them up to be taken out of the ship nor would he leave her
himself unless compelled by force to do so ihat they were all at his
service to be examined on board the Peteriioj, and that Captain Baldwin
might send him or any number of officers to make the examination.
9:30 p. in., boat came again from the Vanderbilt Officers [came] with
Captain Baldwins compliments and wishes to have the papers of the
ship. Captain 3. declined to let them go out of the vessel, when the
officer,whomweafterwardsascertainedtoboLietiteliant [Acting Master]
Lewis, U.S. Navy, took possession of the Pterhof in the name of the
United States and declared that Captain 3. was no longer in command
and that he and all the passengers were to remain confined to the cabin.
Another offl6er was sent down to demand all arms and ammunition in
possession of Captain J. and passengers should be given up, threaten-
a search iii case of rethisal. Accordingly several rifles, pistols, and.
knives were given up and sent on board of the Vanderbilt
About 11 p. m. Captain 3. wrote to Captain Baldwin, stating that he
considered the capture of the Peterkoj an illegal act, as her papers
had been examined and passed by the Alabama a few days previously
and that [as] he had her Mt~jestys mails for Matamoras on board
requested, that to avoid delay iii the delivery of them at their destina-
tion, Captain Baldwin would take and deliver them to her Ms&#38; jestys
consul at St1 Thomas, so that he might send them on.
At 10 minutes past midnight an officer boarded with a verbal mes-
sage from Captain Baldwin, who sent his compliments; and that he did
not feel authorized to take any part of the freight out of the ship.
Next morning 26th February, the Vanderbilt left us, and the Peterlaoff
made sail for key West, in charge of the prize officers and crew. It
was their intention to take us through the Mona Passage, and we had
reached Mona Island, when the U. S. S. Alabama spoke us, the British
ensign being hoisted on the PeterIaoff. Our voyage since then has been
without any incident worthy of record, except that the regulation con-
fining us to the cabin was gradually relaxed. First, four were allowed
to go on deck atatime and inafew days all were allowedtoshare,the
benefit of the open air, which is so necessary to health in this climate;
but our liberty was restricted to the after part of the ship, and an
armed marine was stationed night and day at the cabin door.
	I have thus far narrated the voyage of the PeterAqzT, which vessel,
loaded with goods not contraband of war, and having had her papers
examined and passed in London Plymouth, and Falmouth, has been
fired at and overhauled iii Danish waters by the IL S. S Alabama, by
which her papers were examined and passed. Oti leaving St Thoma

Page 104

104	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

she had the certificate of the acting consul, Mr. Bell, and nevertheless
was overhauled just outside the I)ort by the U. S. S. Vanderbilt, Cap-
tain Baldwin. I have heard from Mr. Lewis, t~e prize captain, that
Captain Baldwin wished to let her go, but was compelled to take pos-
session by express orders from Admiral Wilkes. Thus, by the arbi-
trary conduct of this individual, a British ship, proceeding from a
British port to a neutral port, with a proper cargo, has been seized,
her crew removed by superior force, the officers left on board, and
seven passengers deprived of their liberty for ten days and guarded
by armed men.
S.	J. REDGATE.
	Captain 0-. A. HALSTED, It. N.,
Secretary to Lloyds, London.


Report of Commander MeDougal, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Wyoming, of arrival at Macao, China, with vessel in need of repairs.

U.	S. S. WYoMD~c~,
]lfacao, February 25, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report my return to this place, having left
Manila on the 17th ultimo.
	I also acknowledge the receipt of your telegraphic dispatch of the
29th December, through the collector of the port of San Francisco.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

	Yesterday, on removing a tank in the engine room, a considerable
leak was discovered about the collar of the outboard-delivery pipe.
The pipe being some 3 feet below the water line, to get at it, either for
examination or repair, it will be necessary to put the ship in dock. As
I consider it prudent to do so, will leave to-morrow for Whampoa for
that purl)ose.
	I reported my arrival at Manila by the ship Rattler, bound to San
Francisco from that place.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
D.	MCDOU~AL,
Commander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of arrival at St. Thomas, West Indies, after vigilant
search Jbr C. S. steamers Alabama and Florida.

U. S. S. VANDERBILT,
St. Thomas, February 26, 1863.
	SIR:	I arrived at this port, having the Oneida in company, after a
close search of all the coast amid harbors of Cuba, San Domingo, Puerto
Rico, and the Windward, Mona, and Virgin passages. In the former
passa~e we remained thirteen days, extending our search across the
bay of Port an Prince to Cape Tibimron, southwest end of San Domingo,
thence to the eastward along that island to False Cape, passing the
island of Kavassa on our route to St. Jago F Santiago] de Cuba, and from
thence around Cape Maysi, east end of Cuba, to St. Kicolas Mole.

Asterisks denote unimportant and irrelevant nlamter.CovIvmLEns

Page 105

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUlSEl~SUNION.
105
After the time I had appointed for the &#38; untiayo de Cuba and Cuyler to
relieve us, to coal, I determined to proceed to the eastward, and if the
state of the boilers of the Wachusett per~itte(1,to rea~h St. Thomas, learn-
iuuig that the Florida and also that the Alabama had gone to windward
in that (lirection, my object being to follow them up closely. This we
finally accomplished, after two or three repairs on our boilers at sea,
occupying us some twelve to fourteen hours each time.
	It was fortunate I succeeded in making St. Thomas, as it will en ble
me to organize a regniar search and occupy the points most resorted to
by the rebels to waylay our commerce in these seas.
	I found here the AS~hepherd Knapp, and after a few days ordered her
to proceed on the route by which our homeward-hound merchant ves-
sels pass to the northward of this group, extending to the northward
of the Bahamas, snaking the track backward to the eastward. She is
well adapted to this service, may be readily disguised, and is compe-
tent to contend with either of the rebel vessels. She will sail on the
28th.
	With the facts of the capture of the Jacob Bell, the Department will
be fully informed; I therefore do not deem it necessary to report them.
	The fact of the Florida having but a few days coal makes me
anxious to have our vessels off the island of Martinique, which is the
only island they can hope now to get any coal or supplies at, the
English islands being cut off nnder the rules of her Majesty for some
sixty (lays yet, which precludes the possibility, unless by sonic chican-
ery and fraud, the hope of their getting any coal and comfort there;
therefore the island of Martinique, it appears to me, to be the only one
to which they will attempt to resort, or some out of the way place
where they may have appointed for the coal vessels to meet them.
	A suspicious vessel with coal left this port some few days ago, but
the consul was not informed as to her destination, and did not appear
to be aware of the importance of information respecting it; however
this is to be regretted, it will not occur again, and he has promised me
more vigilance hereafter. It is my wish to follow up these coal vessels
to their final destination, when any doubt arises as to their honest
character.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,

	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West india Squadron.
Hon. GIDEoN WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Instructions ~f Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. &#38; Navy, commanding
IVest India Squadron, to liieutcnant- Commander Fleming, commanding
U.	S. S. Wachusett, in the event of the appearance of C. S. steamers
Alabama or Oreto (Florida) off St. Thomas, West Indies.

FLAG-STEAMER WACHUSETT,
St. Thomas, February 26, 1863.
	SIR: You will use all dispatch in getting this ship ready for sea. As
soon as possible you will get steam on, and keep banked fires, so that
at a moments notice the vessel may be ~ot underway. During my
absence the rules and regulations of the ship and sqna(lron will he
strictly observed. Mr. Stuart will take charge of all letters and dis-
patches for me, and have in keeping my effects

Page 106

ios
oPEEATIofl OP THE Oiiuisnanxor.
	In the eventof the Alabassaor OretoappearingofftJAsharbor, orbeing
In this vicinity, you will lose no time in pursuing them, and in case any
suspicious vessels should cruise off the harbor, or leave this anchorage,
you will be prompt in overhaulingthem, returning to this anchorage at
once. Captain Hazard will be left as senior officer, to whom all mat-
ten of moment wm be referred.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,

	Acting Rear-1d4ra4 c..... ,Hj

	Lieutenant-Commander C. E. FLEMiNG,
(JT. 5.8. WeolnetS.



Instruction. 0/MU.., Rear-Admiral Will.., U. S. Nwg, comma.sdksg
Wet I.di. Squadron, to Captain Hw4, U. &#38; Keep, eom.nandi.sg
U. &#38; &#38; Giwida, a senior officer in comment

FIaG-SnAnn WAOHlYsrrT,
St. Thomas, Februery 26, 1868.
	Sn: You will complete the repairs on the O...id.?. boilers as soon as
you can and take in all the coal you need with as little delay as possi-
ble, and be prepared to leave port at a moments notice.
	The Alabama, Commander Nichols, is expected hourly as soon as
she arriveq she will take in a supply of coal, if needed, and be prepared
for sea at once. Should any information be received of the where.
abouts of the Alabama, or 290, or Oreto, you will take the Alabama,
Commander Nichols, in company with you, in pursuit. I enclose orders
to Commander Nichols to accompany you.
	You will make a cruise among the Caribbee or Windward Islands,
stretching as far north and south as your judgmentmay suggest, based
upon information you may obtain from our commercial agents, having
in view the capture of the rebel vessels Alabama, or 290, and Oreto,
with special reference to their supply coal vessels.
	I call your attention to the importance of a careful reconnoissance
of the various ports In this vicinity where coal can be procured, as being
the points most likely to till in with [the] vests we are in pursuit of,
likewise those places. where they are likely to resort to supply them-
selves from their coal vessels, such as Blanquilia, north of Margarita
You will be careful to keep these orders, and all information you
may obtain strictly confidential, as it is absoluteir necessary to secure
success. iou will acquaint Commander Nichols with thenature of your
instructions and appoint such a rendezvous In case of separation as
will enable you to meet without loss of time, bearing in mind that your
united action will be most effective. You will be able to coal at Mar.
Unique, (inadeloupe, Cura9ao, etc. Should you require money you wili
obtain it on requisition from the paymaster of this ship. Should you
depart on a cruise you will leave a communication for me, stating the
object of your cruise and the route you intend to pursue, and probable
time of absence from this port, where you will find me and orders.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	(CnnLus Wuns,]
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Captain S. F. HAZARD,
Commanding Steamer Oneida

Page 107

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	107

[Enclosure.]

FLAo~STEA1~IER WACHUSETT,
St. Thomas, ~ebruary 26, 1863.
	SIR:	You will ff11 up with coal if needed, without (lelay, and be ready
to leave port at a moments notice.
	You will communicate to Captain hazard, commanding the Oneida,
all the information you possess iu relation to the rebels, and be prepared
to act with him, and as he may direct, in pursuit of them.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,]
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
	Commander E. T. NICHOLS, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Alabama, West India Squadron.



Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. wavy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Fytinge, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp, to cruise in search of C. S.
steamers Alabama and Oreto (Flo~ida).

FLAe~STEAMEn WACHIJSETT,
St. Thomas, February 26, 1863.
	SIR:	On Saturday, at noon, you will l)rocecd to sea with the vessel
under your eommand and cruise between longitude 6O~ W. and the
Abaco, outside of all the islands, embracing iu your field a scope north-
ward and eastward far enough to cover the route of vcsscls bound to
the United States from Rio, etc. Ju this direction the rebels Alabama,
or 290, and Oreto, as w-ell as vessels intending to run the blockade, will
likely be found, and you will do your utmost to capture them.
	I call your attention to the necessity of keeping your instructions
and all information you may receive in relation to the rebels strictly
confidential. You will return to this port in thirty-one days, when you
will find me or orders.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CIIARLES WILKES,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Actg. Vol. Lieut. Comdg. H. S. EYTlNGE, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. Bark [Ship] Shepherd Knapp,
West India Squadron.


Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Nickels, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. ship Onward, of cruise from November 6, 1862, to February 26,
1863, and the capture of British brig Magicienne.

U.	S. SHIP ONWARD,
Boston, Mass., February 26, 1863.
	SIR:	In obedience to your orders of October 29, 1 proceeded to sea
the 6th [Novembeij, and after cruising oft the Banks of Newfoundland
for a few days, I sailed direct for the Western Islands, arriving at
Fayal on the 23d, where I fell in with the U. S. steam sloop Tuscarora.
On the 25th, under instructioust from Commander Craven (a copy of
	* See Vol. I, P. 523.	See Vol. 1, p. 575

Page 108

108	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

which I have heretofore forwarded to you), I sailed for Falmouth,
England, and, after looking into the principal ports of the Western
Islands on my way, arrived there on the 6th De~mber.
	On the 12th, I sailed from Falmouth for Madeira, where I arrived on
the 23d. From there I sailed again on the 28th, and, after looking
into the ports of the Western islands, arrived at Fayal on the 9th of
January.
	Here, learning that the pirate Alabama was cruising among the West
India Islands, I left on the 12th January for the southern route, and on
the 17th January ~al1ed at Madeira for coal and water, the latter being
so poor at Fayal that we could not use [iti. On the 22d January we
left, and on the 29th boarded the British brig ]Jliagicienne, and findiiig
her loaded with a cargo of stores, which, in my opinion, are all intended
for the rebels, seized her and sent her, in charge of Acting Ensign Henry
P. Conner, to Key West for adjudication, the particulars of which I
have, sent you. I placed on board the brig the .captain, mate, and one
of her men; the balance of her crew, six in number, I have on board
waiting for orders from the iDepartmnent for their disposal. I then made
sail, and after boarding everything suspicious on our way, arrived here
to-day.
Respectfully, yonr obedient servant,
J. F. NICKELS,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding U. S. Ship Onward.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.


Letter from (Jommander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tus-
carora, to the Secretary of the Navy, transmitting correspondence with
the U. S. minister at Lisbon, Portugal, regarding United States vessels
in Portuguese harbors.
U.	S. STEAM SLOOP TUSCARORA,
Jiladeira, February 26, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to enclose to you copies of two notes, received
on my arrival here to-day, from Mr. Harvey, both under the same
enclosure, and dated 13th instant. I also send you a copy of my reply,
which I doubt not will meet your approval.
	It appears that British intrigue is endeavoring to procure from Por-
tuguese Government the same restrictions as to their ports as have
been adopted by the Government of Great Britain. The history of
this may be traced to two sourcesthe one on the part of a man who
hopes to get.tlme consulship of Funchal, the other the Confederate coal
agent here, wI mose sales have been reduced by my visits to this island,
in consequence of which most of the steamers in rebel service go else-
where for coal.
	I should also mention that one of the steamers recently watched
here by me landed a quantity of arms, which are now stored in the
custom-house at Funchal. I therefore presume that that party claims
to have ground of complaint against my course here.
	The questions proposed by Mr. Harvey are of too great moment for
my action, as I can not believe the Government would sanction any
opinmon on my part of the belligerent right of search or any (leparture
from established maritime rights.
	It is true we should be somewhat inconvenienced by being restricted
in the use of the Portuguese ports, but that is a matter of trifling cons

Page 109

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	109


quence compared with the quasi condition imposed, a condition, indeed~
which would render the further presence of our cruisers on the Euro-
pean coast useless.
	I intend remaining here a few days in exl)ectati~n of the arrival of
the privateer ~eorgiana,* from 1-lolyhead.
	The rebel agents are actively equi~~ping vessels in England, and
now have a vessel in the Clyde, said to be superior to the Alabama, and
nearly completed.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T.	AuGs. CRAVEN,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
~ccrctary of the Nary.

[Enclosures.]

LEGATION OF TIlE UNITED STATES,
LThbon, February 13, 1863.
	SIR: There are reasons of public importance why the visit and search
of vessels under the British flag, and suspected of illegal destinitioji,
which may touch at the island of Madeira should be avoided by you
for the present. I therefore advise you to that effect, and I wonld, in
connection with this counsel, recommend at least a temporary absence
from that island.
I am, respectfully,
	JAMES B. HARVEY.
	Commander T. AuGS. CRAVEN,
U.	&#38; s~. Tuscarora, Funchal, ]lIadeira.


[Private.]

LISBON, February 13, 1863.
	Mv DEAR SIR: I may say to you con fidentially, in connection with
the enclosed official communication, that I have reason to fear, if your
visits and searches are persisted in, that the Portuguese ports will be
closed against ns. The BritishGoverument concedes that your visit
to the Thistle was legally made, but a question is raised under interna-
tional laws, and with some force, whether, in the exercise of the bellig-
erent right of search, tile ports of a neutral nation may be used by a
vessel of war to lie in wait, going out frequently and returinug, for
tile purpose of enforcing that right. Neutral, so called, commerce
claims to be injured by this practice on our part, and its representations
here may be injurious in a matter of serious consequence just now.
Ilence, as nothing appears to have been gained thus far by this search,
I have considered it prudent, for public reasons, that it should be dis-
co1lt~nued at least to the extent of going in and out of Funchal. Of
course, there is no objection to your cruising near by, if you deem it
necessary, but even then it would be better not to be within eye reach
of the marine league.
	Every pretext is seized upon to embarrass us, but we must not on
that account allow our equanimity to be disturbed, or suffer ourselves
to sacrifice important benefits. I feel assured that you will enter into
the spirit of what I have written and govern yourself accordingly.
	Very truly,	JAMES F. HARVEY.

	Captain CRAVEN.

Commanded by Geo. T. Sinclair, late lieutenant, U. S. Navy

Page 110

110	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP TUSCARORA,
Ma deira, February 26, 1863;
	SIR:	I have this day received your two notes ~f the 13th instant, the
one marked private being apparently in explanation of the other.
	In the discharge of nv duties to my country, 1 can not feel justified
in abating one iota of our maritime rights, and in my judgment the
threatened restrictions as to Portuguese ports are of much less con-
sideration than that of yielding the belligerent right of search, and if
we show any appearance of weakness in the matter, we shall have to
submit to further encroachments, until finally humbled to the dust. I
have referred both of your notes to the honorable Secretary of the
Navy, under whose orders I serve.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T.	AUGS. CRAVEN,
Commander.
Hon. J. E. HARVEY, U. S. Minister, Lisbon.


Report of Commander Trenchard, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Rhode
Island, of the overhauling of II. B. M. S. Cygnet in the search for C. S.
S.	Oreto (Florida).
U.	S. S. RHODE ISLAND,
Off Cape ]I/Iaysi, Cuba, March 2, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that on the morning of the 27th
nltiino, between 8 and 9 a. in., in the Old Bahama Channel, latitude
220 53 N., longitude 78~ 40 W., steering E. S. E., the Santiago de Cuba
in company, 3 or 4 miles distant, we made a three-masted vessel to the
eastward of us, some 7 or 8 miles distant, and standing to the north.
war(I and westward. We gave chase at once, and soon after made her
out to be a bark-rigged steamer of a very suspicious character, and
apparently running for, with the view of crossing, the Great Bahama
Bank. The pressure of steam was increased and our course altered so
as to cut her off, prevent her reaching the bank, and continue the chase
seaward. As we gained upon the stranger, she appeared to increase
her steam and to steer more directly for the bank.
	As we apj)roached her we hoisted our ensign (she having previously
shown the English red ensign and pennant), and discharged a blank
cartridge front the howitzer expressiye of a wish to communicate. The
steamer still continuing her course, and we at this time running along
the edge of the bank, I directed a shot to be fired a long distance ahead
of her, and had a boat manned in readiness to lower, as soon as the
steamer stopped.
	Soon after this, and when about a mile distant, the chase stopped,
and lowered a boat, whi cli, as we neared her, shoved off, carrying the
English ensign and pennant. The boat conveyed the cemmander of
the vessel on board the Rhode Island, and reported his vessel to be II.
B. N. S. Cygnet, cruising, to whom I expressed my regrets that we had
not been fully satisfied of the true character of his vessel until he had
lowered the boat and made arrangements to board us, or the shot would
not have been fired across the bows of his vessel that Ihadaboat
in readiness to lower to proceed on board, and the officer instructed
that if she proved to be a vessel of war to apologize for the shot being
fired.
	From the general description that I had of the Oreto, knowing that
she frequently displayed the English re(l ensign and pennant, and that
all the British vessels of war I had fallen in with carried the blu

Page 111

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	111

ensign, the flag worn by the admiral commanding this station, I felt
sanguine that it might be her, and determined to use every means
within my power to prevent her escape.
	Commander [Walter S.] de Kantzow, of the Gygnet, appeared to be
perfectly satisfied with the explanation, but said he would be obliged
to report the circumstance to his commander iu chief
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
STEPHEN D. TRENCHARD,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Letter from Commander Emmons, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. R.
R.	Cu yler, to Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, informing him
of receipt of orders to ret am to Western Gulf Blockading Squadron.
U.	S. S. H. H. CUYLER,
flavana, March 3, 1863.
	DEAR ADMIRAL: I have had a tedious time with the machinery of
this vessel, and just as I have finished and I)repared to joiu you, I
learn upou my arrival here that orders were sent over to Key West
last night for me, from Admiral Farragut, to return to my block-
ade duty in his squadron. These I have been looking for, since his
force has been somewhat diminished by the affair off Galveston and
Sabine. So I must retrace my stel)s and bid you good-bye for the
present, hopii~g that you have been more successful than myself.
	You have a valuable acquisition in the Rhode island and Vanderbilt;
both are faster than the Cuyler and will do good service.
	We want a vessel off Nassau all the time; there are continual arriv-
als there from Charleston.
	Walker, in the J)e Soto, has been sent on the south side of Cuba,
and it unfortunately so happens that both the Octorara and Tioga
were coaling at Key West when I left.
	The National Guard has been depleted and Admiral B[ailey] was
thinking of sending her north for coal and provisions; better this than
she should lay idle.
Very truly, yours,
GEo. F. EMMONS.
	Acting Hear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding Flying Squadron, West Indies.


Report of Commander Trenchard, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Rhodc Island, of intended search for C. S. steamers Alabama and
Oreto (Florida).
U.	S. S. HHODE ISLAND,
		   St. Nicolas Mole, San Domingo, March 4, 1863.
	SIR: *	I intend leaving this place to-day in company with the
Santiago de Cuba, to cruise after the Alabama and Oreto.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	STEPHEN Ii. TRENCHARD,
	Commander.
Acting Hear-Admiral CIIARLES WILKES, U. S. Navy,
Commanding West India Squadron

Page 112

112	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUJSflSUNION.

Report o44nmswW,er Nichols, U. S .Ywg commauMug U. &#38; &#38; Ala-
e.ami.ati.. of Britisi steamer .Zeterhoj

u. b. a Main,
St. Thomas, H arch 5,1868.
Sm:	The following Is an account of my late cruise: On the evening
of the 19th ultimo, a Danish bark wived, bringing the officers and
crew of the American ship Jacob BeU~, destroyed by the Confederate
privateer Florid. on the 12th ultimo, in latitude 240 01 N., longitude
650 58 W. The captain of the Jacob Bell stated that, when he left
the Florida on the evening ot the 17th, she was under canvas, steer-
ing to the southward. At daylight on the 20th ultimo1 I went to sea,
having arranged with Lieutenant Commanding Baldwin to meet me
with the Va.sderbllt off St Pierre, Martinique.
	Soon after leaving St Thomas, I discovered a steamer coming don
along the landfrom the eastward; headed for her and showed my colon;
fired two shots, one astern and one ahead of her, when she hove to.
Sent Acting Master Billings on board to examine her papers, etc. She
pro vedtobe the British steamer Peterhof, from on via Palmouth
for Matamoras, and bound into St Thomas for coal.
Her captain produced to Mr. Biflings a sealed. manifest and other.
papers, and a certificate from IL S. Consul Croskey that his cargo con-
tained nothing contraband; he also produced a commission as a lieu-
tenant in the British navy. I met the Vauderbilt on the morning of
the22d ultimo off St Pierre; Martinique,wlten, after communication with
Lieutenant Commanding Baldwin, we decided to look up the islands to
the northward, and separated for that purpose, arranging to meet the
following morning off (luadeloupe. I anchored in Prince Rupert Bay,
Dominica,. on the afternoon of the 22d, intending to remain until mid-
night
The health officer came off, and, learninq that I had communicated
with StPierre, placed the vessel In quarantine. A few minutes before
6p. m. I received a communication, of which I enclose acopy, and also
a copy of my answer. Not having a copy of the proclamation, nor
indeed any document or book of laws to refer to, and deeming it better
to refer the matter to the Government rather than ignorantly to enter
into a correspondence with a petty official, I contented myself with
sending the enclosed answer and sailed for the rendezvous, where I met
the Vanderbilt, and we again separated to meet in the Mona Passage.
I then visited Sombrero, coasted the north shore of Puerto Rico, touched
at Aguadilla and Mayagaes on the west end of the island and arrived
at Mona Island at Op. m. on the 20th, cruised around during the night,
and atfl:30 e. m. of the27th fellinwith and spoke the Peterhoff, bound
for Key West, a prize to the Vanderbilt. Prom her I learned that the
Vanderbilt was at St. Thomas and that yon were also there. Deeming
it no longer necessary to wait for the Vanderbilt, I proceeded to San
Domingo City, and when within 3 miles of the place made a sail tothe
southeast, apparently a steamer. Spoke an English schooner just
out from San Domingo and learning from her that there was no
news of any privateers, f hauled off in chase ofthevessel to the south-
east, which proved to be H. B. M. S. Ariadne. Being nearly out of
coal, I shaped my course for St. Thomas, where I wived on the morn-
ing of the 3d of March with only about 30 tons of coal remaining. On

S.p.96.



V  ~

Page 113

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
113
the morning of my arrival, James Dallas, whom I had taken on board
at Cura~ao in distress, died. I have had him b4ried on shore, and
approved the bill (~14) for funeral exl)enses.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
En. T. NICHOLS,

Commander.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding IVest India Squadron.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S.
Navy, commanding West India Squadron.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, March 6, 1863.

	SIR:	Order the Oneida amid the R. II. Onyler to retnrim immediately
to Rear-Admiral Farragut, or you may retain the Cuyler and send one
of your double-end vessels instead.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHAS. WILKES,	Secretary Navy.
Commanding West India Squadron, Havana, Cuba.


Report of Captain Hazard, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Oneida, of
the reported pre
	indies. sence of C. S. S. Florida (Oreto) at St. Thomas, West
		U.	S. STEAM SLOOP ONEIDA,
			    St. Thomas, March 6, 1863.
	SIR:	In consequence of two of the Oretos officers having been seen
in St. Thomas on March 1, an(l as it was reported to me on the 3d by
the American consul that the Oreto had been seen north of this island
I hired a pilot and immediately went in I)Ursuit of the pirate, the
American consul accompanying me. After a thorough search among
the keys of this island, visiting Tortola, Aneg-ada, Sombrero, Dog
Island, Angailla, Marigoth, on the island of St. Martin, and the south-
ern part of it belouging to the Dutch, I returned to this place to-day
without seeing or receiving any information of the Oreto.
	I delivered your dispatches to the Shepherd Knapp and Gemsbok, as
directed. The latter vessel had to purchase a spar for a main topgalla~nt
mast here, also water, as she had only 1,000 gallons of water on her
arrival.
1 have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
S.	F. HAZARD,
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,	(Japtain.
Commanding U. S. Naval Forces.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Yavy, commanding West
India Squadron, (j the friendly attitude toward the C. S. S. Florida
of British officials in West Indian ports.

U.	S. FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
Barbados, West Indies, March 7, 1863.
	SIR:	A few hours before I joined the Vanderbilt I learned that the
Florida had becit left at Barbados by an Amexican brig, and was to

N W RVOL Il

Page 114

114 OPERATIONS or THE CRUISERSUNION.
take in coal and supplies and mail within twenty-four hours. Although
Idid notexpect tohearof hervisiting an English port in less than
thirty days after having coaled at Nassau, I Yelt satisfied that the
statement of the captain of the brig was to be relied upon. The
Wael.usett and Oneida being under repairs and coaling,! lost no time
in Joining the Vanderbilt, on board of which vessel I immediately
shifted my flag and passed around Puerto Rico to the Mona Passage,
to meet the Alabama at the place appointed by Captain Baldwin an
Nichols as a rendezvous. Thence we made all haste for the island of
Guadeloupe, Pointe A Pike, but they had no news of the Florida at
Barbados. We then passed along Dominics, and also Martinique,
communicating with the latter, and thence direct to this isla~id, where
I was informed by our consul, Mr. Trowbridge, of all the circumstances
under which the Florida had been permitted to enter and coal by the
permission of the governor of the island. Mr. Trowbridge had made
a strong protest to the qovernor against the Florida being permitted
to take m coal and repair. He has forwarded the protest, as well as
the result of his interview, which the govornor sought, to the Secretary
of State, which I presume you will have received ore this dispateh
reaches you. I immediately determined to call upon the governor, and
sent on shore to ask the hour he would receive me. I was courteously
received. At the interview I stated to him the facts as to the Fiend.
having coaled at Nassau, and my surprise that he should have per.
mitted such an infraction of her Ms~jest7s rules, established for the
belligerents. He at first said he had no discretion in the matter, and as
he had before given permission to the Saw. Jacinto to coal and repair,
withoutenquiry, he had done the sameinthe case of the Florida when it
was asked of him. The news of the coaling of the Florid, at Nassau
became public two days after she left, but I was credibly informed,
coming, indeed, from one of the governors council, that the governor
bad stated before the council that he had information of it when the
Florida arrived. Maffitt received a welcome from the governor and
his hospitality. He, Maffitt, informed the governor of his cruise, of
the destruction of the Jacob Bell and other vessels, of which he
boasted; gave out that it was his intention to depredate on our
commerce, not in this vicinity, but at some thousands of miles distant
The governors answers to my interrogatories were cautious, and at
times cpnfnsed, particularly when I enqui~ into his reasons for not
making an investiqation into the &#38; ots of the Florida, when his atten
ton had been specially called to it by the protest of theAmericanco -
sul, our only representative at this island. He at last said it was
deemed by him to be no part of his duty. Throughoutthe whole inter-
view with him he seemed nervous and uneasy
It the conversation he told me that since the Florida sailed he had
dispatched circulars to all the islands in the West Indies relative to
the San Jacinto and Florida having coaled athis island, buton enquiry
if Nan and Bermuda had been included, heapplied to his secretary,
who answered him in the negative; at which I expressed my surprise,
as they were the two most important points, and tbrnished th. largest
trade in contrabands and were strong sympathizers with the rebels.
I endeavored to press upon him a reply to my question, if he had not
received information of the Floridae coaling at Nassau, for I was sat-
isfied that such had been the case, and that Maffitt had brought letters
and dispatches for him or others connected with the Government, l~om
Nassau, as there was no other way by which he could possibly have
obtained information. Finaily I said to 1dm that I should address hi

Page 115

OPERATIONS OF THE ORUISERSUNION.	115

a dispatch that p. in., and would request a prompt answer to it, as I
intended to leave the port at the expiration of the dotted time of her
Majestys rules. This I did and herewith enclose a%opy of it, together
with the governors reply, wkich will give you the demand I made upon
him, and his evasive answer, our consul, Mr. Trowbridge, Captain Bald-
win, of the Yaabrbilt, and Lieutenant Todd, my flag lieutenant being
present
Maffitt gave out that he was from Mobile,making no mention of hay-
big made a visit to Havana.
There evidently has been a connivance between the governor of Nas-
ian and the governor of this island by letter or dispatches brought by
Maffitt himsclZ and which admitted him to coal, etc., in direct violation
of her tajestys proclamation and rules. Afterthe receipt of the gov-
ernors dispatch I deemed it not worth while toask any extension of the
rules,to stay and answer it, or to enter into any argumentasto his course
in aiding and abetting the rebels, as I well knew it would not result in
anything; butin this casethe sympathyand aid has beencarriedlbrther,
and with an audacity that was not to be expected of any official of her
Majesty, excepting Governor Bayley, of Nassau, who has so identified
himself with the contraband trade thatit has become almost a byword.
I flatter myself that my visit will be of someservicein arresting this
aid and comfort to the rebels, preventing in future theinfraction of the
rules of her Majesty. Since I have been in command of this squadron,
not a single pound of coal has been taken from a British port, nor have
any of the vessels been permitted to enter or anchor off their ports, yet
wo have maintained a strict watch over these localities. It would be
greatly to the advantage of our operations if the British Government
would establish a mode~y which the information could be more rapidly
conveyed to theseveralislandsof the rebel vessels coaling at their ports.
There is no difficulty in their doing it, for they have increased their force
very much in the West Indies of late, and the information could be
very readily sent by their mall men-of-war. If it is not done bythem, I
shall manage to inform our consuls of the fact of their being supplied,
although it will inconvenience my operations somewhat
The O.rnsbok~ agreeably to my orders, reported to me at St Thomas,
having exchanged her stone ballast forthat of coal at Key West, which
Iintendto have as areserve,in caseofneed,to supplythe vessels,
should it be necessary, at some distant point In the meantime she
was ordered to take up the line of cruising of the Shepherd Kua~, ?~
the route of the homeward-bond vessels, prepared to use such dis-
guises as her commander might think St to deceive the rebel vessela
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
OnuLus WILKES,
Acting Bear-AdmIral, Clomina.sding West I.di. S~uadns.
Hon. GIDEoN WELLES,
Secretary of the 7a4y, Washington.

U.	S. FLa.G-STEAMn VANDEHEILT,
Carlisle Bag, Barbados, March 6,1868.
Sm: In our interview this morning I had the opportunity to state
to you the object of my visit to this island, viz, to enquire into the infrac-
tion of her Majestys orders relative to the admission of the rebel pri-
vateer, the Florida, Maffitt, commander, into this port, being permitted
to take in a supply of coal, after having obtained afdll supply (180 tons

Page 116

116	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

but thirty days since at Nassau, on Jaiiuary 27, 1863, of which fact I
presumed your Excellency must have received notice, if not officially,
at least through the public prints, and the avo~ral on the 1)art of said
Mathtt, while in this harbor, that he had done so, and had destroyed
various American merchant vessels whilst pursuin~, their lawful voy-
ages on the high seas, and that he imitended to depredate on the- same
again, on leaving this port, though not in this immediate vicinity.
	The language of Earl Itussells dispatch, her Majestys secretary of
state for foreign aft~irs, to the Duke of New Castle, her Majestys sec-
retary of state for the colonies, dated 31st January, 1862, seems to be
explicit on this point, and I take the liberty to call your attention to
the part which particularly refers to it, viz:
	No shiis of war, or privateer, of either belligerent shall hereafter be permitted,
while in any port, roadste~ d, or waters subject to the territorial jurisdiction of her
Majesty, to take in any supplies, except provisions and such other things as may be
re(]llisite for the subsistence of her crew, and except so niucli coal only as may be
snfficient to carry such vessel to the nearcst port of her own country, or to some
nearer destination; and no coal shall be again supplied to any such ship of war or
privateer in the same, or any other port, roadstead, or waters subject to the terri-
torial jurisdiction of her Majesty without special permission nntil after the expira-
tion of three months from the time when such coal may have been last supplied to
her within British waters as aforesaid.

	In the conversation this morning I understood your Excelleimcy to
say that you had given your permission without any enquiry as to
whether time said privateer Florida had obtained any supplies elsewhere
or not, although your attentiomi was called to her snspicious character
by the U. S. consul at this port, under protest, that she had and was
about to u:se the supply offered to her of coal to depredate on the comn-
merce of the United States, which supply was clearly intended by the
above (lispatelm of Earl Russell only to enable her to reach a home port,
and that it was not to be expected that you should institute any such
enquiries.
	The knowledge of the depredations of the Florida had become known
to the inhabitants of Bridgetown, and mentioned in the protest of the
U. S. consul, and I could not avoid surprise to learn from your Excel-
lency that no investigation had been ordered, by which the facts would
have been elicited, amid action taken on them by which an infraction of
her Majestys regulations was then taking place, and been proved. Your
Excellencys excuse that you had received no official comnumunication
from the governor of Nassau of the ifact of her visiting that colony, for
not stopping and denying the Florida coal and supplies, I scarcely
believe will be deemed satisfactory to yours or to my Government. The
United States are endeavoring to act up to, and carry out the literal con-
struction of her Majestys rules prescribed for the belligerents, amid it can
not but seem to you, that with this desire, and reposing full faith in all
of her Majestys officers, who are bound to carry out these rules in their
spirit and literal construction, that my Government should deem this
act of supplying a rebel privateer with aid to carry out her nefarious
operations against its commerce when passing on the high seas, at some
thousands of miles distant, as your Excellency stated said Maffitt had
imiformed you was his intention, without which aid the rebel privateer
would have been comparatively harmless, and when apprised of his
intention, without any action on your part of examination and enquiry,
was both untoward and unfriendly.
	Having stated these facts, I have to request your Excellency wib
afford me the opportunity of laying befbre my Government the circum-
stances umider which the Florida was permitted to take in a supply o

Page 117

OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.	117

coal and provisions to continue her cruise and operations, after having
so recently coaled and provisioned at Nassau, one of her Majestys
colonies in the West Indies, ample time having ~eeu afforded (some
thirty days) for the information to have reached this island and govern-
ment; and if any cause existed why an investigation was not instituted
after the letter to your Excellency was received from the U. S. consiiil,
the resident official of my Government at this island, when the Florida
was lying in these waters under your jurisdiction.
	I take this occasion to express to your Excellency my thanks tor
your kind offer of aid and assistance. Being in want of nothing, we
shall take our departure on the expiration of the limit assigned in her
Majestys rules, by which time I hope to receive your Excellencys reply
to this dispatch, and,
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your Excellencys very obe-
dient servant,
CHARLES WILKEs,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Gommanding West India squadron.
His Excellency Governor WALKER, etc.,
Barbados and Adjacent Islands.


GOVERNMENT HOUSE,
Barbados, March 7, 18G31O: 35 a. m.
	SIR: I have had the honor this moment to receive your Excellencys
letter of yesterdays date, with a verbal intimation to the effect that
you are to sail~at 11 oclock.
	Even if time permitted, I doubt very much whether it would be
desirable to enter into correspondence with your Excellency upon the
points adverted to iu your communication, beyond repeating the assur-
ance which I have already conveyed to you personally of my desiro to
carry out most faithfully the instructions which I have received from
her Majestys Government as to the observance of a due neutrality
during this painful struggle, and that in sanctioning the coaling here
of the Florida I did no more than what I had sanctioned in the case
of the U. S. steamer of war San Jacinto.
	It will of course be my duty to forward your representation to her
Majestys Government, to whom I had ah~eady reported the fact of the
Florida, as well as the San Jacinto, having been allowed to repair and
coal here.
	I have the honor to be, sir, your Excellency~s most obedient and
humble servant,
JAS. WALKER.
	His Excellency [Acting] Rear-Admiral WILKES,
Gommander in Chief of the United States Naval Forces,
West Indies, U. S. S. Vanderbilt.


Report of Commander ~iJooper, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S~ ~Jon-
necticut, regarding convoy of mail steamers.

U.	S. S. CONNECTICUT,
Bay of Aspinwall, New Granada, March 8, 1863.
	SIR: I respectfully inform the Department that we continue to act as
convoy to the mail steamers, Thus fur 1 have been able to keep the
ship ready to perform the (luty, but I anticipate some difficulty as
regards coaling in time to sail with the steamer that is to leave here o

Page 118

118	OPEHATION~ OP THF~ CRUISERSPNION~.

the 15th instant. The Champion did not arrive until the night of the
5th; sailed on the 8th to convoy her, agreeable to orders. It will be the
night of the 14th before we can arrive at Aspin~vall.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	G. H. COOPER,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commanding U. S. S. Connecticut.
Secretary of Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander Emmons, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. R. P.
Cuyler, of arrival off ilIobile Al
	ading Squadron.	, a., for duty in Western ~h4f Block-
		       U. S. S. R. li. CUYLER,
Off Mobile, ]Jlareh 9, 1863.
	SIR: I reached this station to-day, agreeable to your orders of Feb-
ruary 20, a notification of which I first learned at Havana, on the 4~h
instant, and received triplicate orders to the same effect from Admiral
Bailey, at Key West, on the following day, leaving there the same
evening.
	During my absence I have received supplies from Admiral Wilkess
squadron, and have drawn $3,000, to meet expenses, from the U. S.
marshal at Key West, negotiating a bill on the Navy Department at
par1)aper money. I have lost 4 ineii by desertion and 1 by sentence
of conrt mtmrtial, and gained 2 by enlistment, leaving me some 15 short.
	Since my last communication I have not heard anything reliable in
regard to the rebel privateers, except that the schooner Retribution
had Put into Nassau and been condemned s unseaworthy. Admiral
Wilkes was daily expected at Havana, in company with the Oneida,
when I left. The Confederate steamera Herald, Stonewall Jackson. and
Alice (Matagorda), all iron side-wheel boats, were fitting out in ilaYana
to run time blockade, and from all I could learn they wcre receiving not
only sympathy but material aid from the Spaniards.
	I left the Colorado (Goldsborough) coaling at Key West, to follow
here in a few days. If, after her arrival, this vessel can be spared here,
I think I can intercept some of these blockade runners to the south-
ward of this, or perhaps intercept anything that may have run out past
theasquadron at night.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEO. F. EMMONS,
Commander.
Admiral D. G. FARRAGUT
Commanding Western Gulf Squadron, New Orleans.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
india Squadron, regarding affairs on that station.
U. S. FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
Pointe t Pitre, Guadeloupe, March 12, 1863.
	SIR: On our return from Barbados we stopped at this island to obtain
a supply of coal and to meet the Oneida and Alabama, which vessels
had been directed to call off this port on a cruise I had marked out for
them to make among the Windward and Leeward islands as far as
Cura~ao, visiting Blauquilla, the Testigos, and other places where it is
probable the Alabama and Florida may order the coal vessels, to obtai

Page 119

	OPERATIONS QP Tfl ORUISEUUNIO1#.	119

supplies from them and as it is about time they would require such
supplies, particularly the former. We have received no news of her
since she was at San Domingo City on the 81st Jax~uary.
The day after we reached this port the Oae&#38; I. slid Alsb~aJoined,
having visited all the Islands to the northward, including S6mbrero~ on
their way from St Thomas where the Wckvaett was left to watch two
contraband runners direct A,om England, who had gone In there to re4,
and thus ut themselves inconditiontu run the blockade. One of them,
the ,which was made prize of by the Yedrbil; as I have
apprised you, after she left St Thomas. This steamer is mentioned on
the list of suspected vessels, as are also the An.. and Pet I trust the
WavinueeSt will be able to capture them on their exit from the port. She
may carry steam for twenty-four or thirty-six hours and be able to do
good service here as a guard ship iu breaking up this nest of contra-
band runners who have made St Thomas of late their rendezvous. I
think her presence there, together with the visits of the other vessels,
will have the effect to arrest their operations. Besides this, St Thomas.
is aportsocentralandvisited byall the steamers from thevarious
islands, that the news is received some days earlier and the chances
are very much in favor of learning the whereabouts of the rebel priva-
teers in time to capture them.
On the arrival of the Oneida at this port the health of Captain
Hazard was reported to be such as to preclude his attending to any
duty. I therefore felt compelled to order a medical survey on him,
which resulted in his being reported unfit for duty, and recommended
his going North. I enclose herewith the report relative to his case.
This obliged me to place the Oneida under the temporary command
of Lieutenant W.N. Allen, the first lieutenant of the Oneida, and
to associate. him with Commander Nichols, of the Alabama, for the
intended cruise. As above stated, they would take in some coal and
sail forthwith.
I have not, perhaps, expressed to the Department, as yet, the utter
futility of the employment of one vessel m the search after these rebel
pirates. There is no port in or adjacent to these islands thait a vessel
can not easily escape from one of our cruisers, and it must have been
evident to the Department that such is the case, from the experience
that has been afforded in the case of the Iroquois and San Jaeinto, eta,
particularly when the larger part of the population, pilots, etc., are all
in sympathy with the rebels. With two vessels I consider the chances
are quadrupled, but yet these roadsteaxls are so open, the land so high,
that in dark nights it is next to impossible to keep up that strict Icok-
out so necessary without a cordon of boats, acting as vedettes, topre-
vent escape.
I regret to say that the health of Commander Nichols is also seriously
impalr~ by continued attacks of ague and fever, but lie is not dis-
posed to seek any relaxation from his duties. The cruise of the Alabama
and Oneida will extend to six weeks, and orders are given them that
in case they should get reliable information of the rebel vessels to at
once go in pursuit
I shall proceed to-morrow in the Vanderbilt to St. Thomas, and
thence proceed to The Havannak, where I hope to meet an increase of
force, as I have yet many points which it is very desirable to occupy.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CnnLzs WxLns,
	Mting Itear-Admira4 Oomrnsandhsg West India Squadron.
Hon. GrnuoN WELLEs,
Secretary of the Navy

Page 120

120	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUIS~RSTJNION.

Report of Captain Price, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Jamestown,
of arrival at Cape Town, Africa, and transmitting correspondence with
the port captain at that place.
U.	S. S~iTh JAMESTOWN,
Cape Town, March 13, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you of my arrival at this place on
yesterday. I saw but few vessels in the passage over from the La Plata,
an(L no American. The ship Roberta, formerly of Richmond, has not
been heard of at this place. 1 shall leave to-morrow for the China sea,
the anthorities here refusing me permission to remain longer, as the
enclosed communication will show.
	A draft for 500 has been drawn here on Baring Brothers &#38; Co., by
the paymaster of this ship to save a loss in the payment of bills in
either American gold or ounces of Chile or Peru, which we have.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CICERO PRICE,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.

[Enclosures.]
POST-OFFICE,
Cape Town, March 13, 1863.
	SIR:	Herewith I beg to enclose for your information a Government
gazette containing a proclamation respecting the arrival and departure
of Federal or Confederate vessels of war at the ports of this coloiiy,
and I now Jz~eg to inform yon, in terms of said l)roclamation, that you
mnst proceed to sea within twenty-four honrs from the receipt of this
notice.
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant,
J.	P. WILsoN,
Port Captain.
C.	PRICE, E sq.,
Comdg. U. S. Corvette Jamestown, lying in Table Bay.


U.	S. SHIP JAMESTOWN,
Table Bay, March 13, 1863.
	SIR:	I have to acknowledge your communication of the present
instant, and to say that I shall leave this port as sooii as the wind
serves after to-morrow noon, having in the meantime obtained tile
necessary supplies and dispatches which brought me here.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
CICERO PRICE,
Captain.
J.	P. WILSON, Esq.,
Port Captain.


Report of C~ommander Collins, U. S. Yavy, commandinq U. S. S. Octorara,
of the capture of the English schooner Florence Nightingale.

U.	S. S. OCTORARA,
At Sea, March 13, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that we this day seized in the North
East Providence Chantiel, in latitude about 25~ 21 N. and longitud

Page 121

	OflEAVIONB OP Tfl OkuISflSUNION.	121
about 770 06 W., the English schooner Florence lV4kti..gale, of 120
tons burden, with a cargo of 120 bales of cotton.
Her certificate of British registry is the only paper found on board.
Atthetimeofcapturethe 11.8.8. Tiogawas in sight. Isendher
to Key West in charge of Acting Ensign 3. H. Wiley for adjudication.
Three of the six persons on board are natives of the United States, as
follows: D. A. Modden, of BalUmo~ master; Henry Taylor (mulatto),
of Gecrgia, steward; and William Hone, born in New York and resides
in Georgia, a passenger.
I am, sir, very respectfiully, your obedient servant,
N. CoLLiNs,
Oouwnander.
Hon. GWVoN WELLS,
Seoretey of the Hay, Washington, D. (1.



BtZf Commander V. &#38; 7.ey, commanding U. &#38; &#38; liege, of
in the eaptswe of BusgUeh schooner


U. S. GunoAT TIOGA,
At Sea, Let. *50* N., Long. 77 W., March 18,1868.
Sn:	Ihavethehonortoreport thecapture,orbeingincompanyof
U.S. gunboat Octorara, Commander Collins (E. N. E. of New Provi-
dence, Bahamas), at the time of the capture of the English schooner
Florence Hightingale, of 120 tons, Martin, master, registered Nassau,
but no other tapers.
The captain stated that be was from Matamoras, Mexico, bound to
New York, with 120 bales of cotton on board; that he had been driven
north to latitude 29 and longitude 80 W., and was going to Nassau for
provisions at the time of the seizure. We made the schooner coming
down from the north off Abaco, and the winds had been E. S. E., 8. E.,
and N. N. W. to N. E., the latter fresh the two or three days previous
to our falling In with her. Captain kartin further reports that hIs
vessel caught fire; that his papers were burned; that he had lost his
mainsail admainboom atthe same time. Tousitappearedasif he
had been fired at, or aground, and a portion of his cotton been thrown
overboard. The captain and supercargo were evidently from Georgia.
I have directed the prize master, Acting Ensign Wiley, to take
charge of the schooner and proceed to Key Wee wait acija.
dication. Commander Collins also advised the Department of the cap-
forwarding prize crew list.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
A. G. Cia
Commander, U. &#38; Jfaey.
Hon. GiDEoN WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D.C.

P. 8.Since the capture of the Florence Nightingale, Captain Col-
lins has secured another prize, the schooner Five Brothers, from Brims.
wick, Ga., the captain of this last schooner recognizing the supercargo
of the Florence Nightingale as an old acquaintance from Savannah

Page 122

122	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.

Seizure of the schooner J. Al. Chapman, supposed to be a Confederate pri
vateer, at San Francisco, Cal March 15, 1863.

Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Bell, U. S. Navy, comm~ft1cunb Pacific Squadron.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Caliao, Peru, April 30, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you th t on March 115 while the
U. S. ship Cyane, under the command of Licutenaut-Conunander Paul
Shirley, was performing guard duty at San Francisco, on being apprise(l
by the collector and surveyor of the port that the schooner J. AL Chap-
man was fitting out and would soon put to sea for the purpose of ~)rey-
in g upon our commerce, Lieutenant-Commander Shirley, at daylight on
the morning of that day, sent two armed boats alongside the schooner,
having observed that she was getting underway, took possession of her,
and soon after (lelivered her up to the surveyor and naval ofticer of the
port.
	Besides her crew of 4 men, on deck, 17 persons were found con-
cealed below, and on examination of her cargo, a number of guns,
ammunition, and other military stores were found on board.
	The seizure of this vessel was inos~ opportune. But for the vigilance
of Lieutenant-Commander Shirley, in an hours time she would have
been beyond the reach of all authority, and would only have been
heard of by her depredations on our commerce on this coast.
	I have the honor to be, very respeetfidly, your obedient servant,

CHAS. II. BELL,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Nary, Washington, D. C.

Report of the commandant of the navy yard, Mare Island, Cal., regarding the capture of the
schooner 3. N. Chapman, transmitting report of Lieutenant-Commander Shirley, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. ship Cyane.
COMMANDANTS OFFICE,
Navy Yard, Mare Island, Cal., March 17, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you of the capture of the schooner
J. Al. Chapman, on the 15th instant, by the boats of the U. S. ship
Cyane, in the harbor of San Francisco, which vessel, there is every
reason to believe, was, from the munitions of war found on board and
the large number of her crew, designed to prey upon our commerce.
	A copy of Lieutenant-Commander Shirleys report is herewith
enclosed.
	The capture of this vessel is conclusive evidence of the importance
of having a vessel of war at all times lying oft~ the city of San Francisco.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
TIIoS. 0. SELFRIDGE,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D; C.
[Enclosure.]

U.	S. SHIP CYANE,
San Francisco Harbor, March 17, 1863.
	SIR: Having been apprised by Mr. iRankin, the collector, and D.*
McLean, the surveyor of the port, that the schooner J. ill. Chapman

Official Register gives J. T. McLean

Page 123

123
OPERATIONS OF THE dRUISERSUNION
was fitting out here and would soon put to sea for the purpose of prey-
Pig upon our commerce, I determined to seize her and now have the
honor to report that about daylight on the morning~of the 15th instant
I was informed by the officer of the deck that the said schooner was
getting underway, when I dispatched two armed boats under Lieuten-
ant Yates, the executive officer of this ship, with orders to seize her,
and then act in conjunction with the civil authorities.
	The schooner was taken without resistance and bronght to anchor,
immediately after which the surveyor of the port and Mr. ~W. B.] Far-
well, the naval officer, went alongside in a steam tug, and, taking the
schooner in tow, proceeded over to Fort Alcatraz, where the cargo was
examined, and among other things, guns, ammunition, etc., found on
board. Some seventeen persons had been found concealed in the hold,
who were confined in Alcatraz; and the schooner was then brought up
and anchored near this ship. I put an officer and four men to look out
for her, a policeman also remaining on board. The crew of the schooner,
four in number, I had brought on board this ship and put nuder the
sentrys charge. The greater part of the cargo was discharged at
Alcatraz.
	All of which is submitted and instructions asked for.
I have honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
PAUL SHIRLEY,
Lieutenant- Commander.
T.	0. SELFRIDGE,
Commandant Navy Yard, Mare Island, Cal.


Report of Commander Cooper, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Connecii-
cut, of return from convoy of steamer Champion.

U.	S. S. (JONNECT1CIJT,
Bay of Aspinwall, i arch 15, 1863.
	SIR: I respectfully report the arrival of this ship on the afternoon of
the 14th instant from convoying the Champion. We are ready for sea,
and wait for the sailing of the Arid to resume convoy.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0-.	II. COOPER,
Commanding U. S. S. Connecticut.
lou. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tusca-
rora, at Cadiz, Spain, of the absence of Conftderatc privateers on that
side of the Atlantic.
U.	S. STEAM SLOOP TUSOARORA,
Cadiz, March 15, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your orders of
12th February.
	I have no intelligence of any privateers on this side of the Atlantic,
nor do I think they can cruise here, on account of the difficulty to be
encountered in procuring fuel. The rebels are certainly bailding ships
in England, but they send them to some island of the West Indies to
eqnip, and it has occurred to me that Anguilla should be occasionally
visited by our ships. It is uninhabited, has excellent anchorage, is
British, and is out of the way, while, at the same time, it is adjacent t

Page 124

124	OPnArIOwS OP Tfl ORUISUSImIQN.
Cuba and the Gulf Stream. I should strongly suspect that Maffitt
would makes coal depot there. If you thinkproper todirectavisitj
would cafl attention to a piece of and beach on the southwesteztrem-
Ity of the island. The slave had barracoons there; it is the best
landing place, and a coal depot may easily be unobserved among the
trees
	Since my letter of 20th February from Madeira I have learned that
the Georg4aesa had on the 13th stopped at Teneriffe for coal, being en
route from England to Nassau; she had no guns monted. My infor-
mation was from the consul at Teneruffe. I accordingly came here again
for intelligence, arriving here yesterday.
	On the 17th IwIll be ready for sea, ad will proceed to the Azores.
Should Inot hear of any pirates there I will touch at Madeira, and, if
I gain no information by that time, will proceed to the United States
as ordered.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T. AuGs. CRAVEN,
Ooseseuder.
	Hon. GiDEON WaLE
&#38; eretary .~A. rasp.


Report of Clommeuler Steve.., U. &#38; Keep eomuse.sMesg U. &#38; S. Souousa,
0/capture by that sceaci of the rkJattse Mintie.

U. S. S. SowoxA,
Keg West, MareS 18,1868.
	Sn: I have the honor to inform you that on the evening of the 15th
ultimo, Morro li~xt then bearing S. E. by E., dIstant 18 miles this ves-
sel captured the rigantine Atlentie~ purporting to be an English vessel,
and hound from Havana to Matamoras. When hailed as to his desti-
nation, the captain replied he was hound to Mexico, and upon boarding
and examining his papers she was fond to be without manifest, bins
of lading, letters of instruction, or aught else, saving her shipping
papers. Her log book was also mutilated and about 40 pages cut
from it.
	Iplaced Act Ensign Charles Norton with a prize crew on board,
with orders to take her to Key West for a4judication, but, as the wind
died any during the night, I made fast to her and towed her to this
port, where we arrived yesterday.
I have the honor to be, yOurs, respectibily,
T.	H. STEncils,
O.uwu,eesder.
	Hon. SEOEETar or TEE Navy.


Report of Cousmee.der (loW.., U. &#38; levy, eommeesdksg U. &#38; &#38; (Mtorera)
of the capture by that easel of (Jo.federat. schooner live Brothers.

U~ 5.8. OoTosaa,
At Sea, March 16, 1968.
	Sn: I have the honor to report that we this day seized, in latitude
about 270 16 N. and longItude 770 16 W., the Confederate schooner
flee Brothers, of 35 tons, with 34 bales of cotton on board. She had
no papers.

Ses p. 108

Page 125

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	125

	The master states that she was from Brunswick, Ga., five days out,
bound to Nassau, New Providence. A Confederate flag was found on
board. At tue time of capture no United States vessels were in sight.
I send her to Key West ill charge of Acting Ensign George F. louis
for adjudication.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	N. COLLINS,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander.
Secretary of the Nary, Washington, D. C.



Report of Lieutenant- Commander Fleming, U. S. Nary, commanding
U. S. S. Wachisett, of departure from St. Thomas, West Indies, of
steamers Aries and Pet, conVoyed by English frigate Phaeton.

U.	S. S. WACIIUSETT,
Island of St. Thomas, March 16, 1863.
	Sin: I have to inform you that the English frigate Phacton went to
sea from this port this morning, and convoyed the steamer Aries and
the Pet, all stan(ling to the eastward. I would have followed, but
unfortunately was prevented by the fires having been hauled, to work
on that worn-out starboard boiler; in fact, sir, I doubt ~yhether this
vessel will be able to accomplish anything where1speed will be required,
unless both those boilers are thoroughly repaired.
	The fires were hauled at 7 oclock this morning, and Assistant Engi-
neer Pendleton informs me that steam will be got up on both boilers
by 5 this evening. The steamer Neptune, from London (on our list),
arrived here about midday, for coal, as I learn. I will keep a good
lookout upon her, and, if the boilers do not fail me, will endeavor to
prevent her from evading our laws, if such should be her intention. I
am happy to inform you that the officers and men are in the same good
health as when you left, and everything goes on well.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHAS. E. FLEMING,
Lieutenant- Commander, U. 8. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Wachusett.
	Acting lear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding West india Station.



Instructions from the Assistant Secretary of the Nary to Acting Volun-
teer Lieutenant Nickels, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Onward,
regarding cruise for the protection of commerce.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, March 16, 1863.
	SIR:	As soon as the U. S. ship Onward, under your command, is ready
for sea, proceed with her to the vicinity of the equator and cruise in
the track of our merchantinen bound to and front the East Indies and
Pacific, and extend to them all the protection in your power. You will
remain out as long as your provisions will allow, and then return to
Boston

Page 126

126	OFflATIONS OF TEE OEUISEESU1IION.
	Should information reach you of the movements of rebel cruisers
within your reach, you are authorized to deviate from the track herein
marked out, for the purpose of pumping them,should you think the
Interests of the service and the contry will be promoted thereb.
	Youwiflezercisealltherightspertainingtoacruiserofthe nited
States in time of war, and be vigilant to detect vessels engaged in
transporting supplies to the rebels and send them into port for a4judi-
cation. At the same time .you will respect the rights of neutrals.
	Communicate with the Department as opportunities offer.
	Iam,respectfolly,eto,	G.V.?ox,

[AetisgJ Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Vointeer Lieutenant J. F. NIonL%
Oossusandks, U. &#38; Shsp Onward,


Report of Oosrisasder (ioWa., U. &#38; Navy, nmanW.ag U. &#38; &#38; Octo-
7474)0/0* capture by th.t vessel of the (Jouifederate sloop RescUe..

U.	S. S. OcTonas,
At Sea, March 17, 1868.
	Sm: I have the honor to report that we seized yesterday at 9p. in.,
In latitude about 280 50 N. and longitude about 760 50 W., the Con-
federate sloop Rosalie (W. IL Postell, formerly of the U. S. Navy,
master), of 28 tons, with an assorted cargo on board, from Nassau,
New Providence, bqund to Charleston, 5.0. Her papers are a Con-
federate register, clearance, crew list, and manifest of cargo from
Charleston to Nassau. At the time of capture no United States yes-
selswerein sight Isend herto Key Westin charge of AotingMas-
tsrs Mate (1. H. Dodge, for adjudication.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
N.	Coxsas,
Commander.
Hon. Gnnnox WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. (I.


Report of Commander Nichols U.S. Navy, comma.sdlnp U. &#38; &#38; Alab!sma,
of arrival at .ZNrt of Spain, !frin.dad, with .mpa.red machinery.

U. S. S.. ALaaxA,
Port of Spain, Trinidad, March 17, 1868.
	ADMIRAL:	I have to report my arrival at this place via Dominica and
Martinique, and shall leave.agam in the morningin further l)rosecution
of your orders. I enclose a sketch of hiulf of the starboard side lever,
showing a crack which has, within a few days past, developed itself to
a serious extent. Mr. Taylor, acting second assistant engineer, who has
been in the vessel for four years past, informs me that there has always
been a slight crack there, and though he has watched it very carefully
he has never discovered any increase until within a few days. I have
had it examined by the chief engineer of the Oneida, who reports that
it is in a bad place and is liable to break at my moment by a sudden
sflin, such  the wheel burying in a heavy sea. In smooth water

Page 127

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	127


where the strain is regular, I do not apprehend any danger from it, but it
remains to be seen what the effect of a rolling sea will be. On Sunday
we had a long and hard chase, off Martinique, after t~vo steamers (which
l)roved to be French, bound to Mexico), and careful watchino did not
discover any extension of the crack. A short ten was the veiy best we
could do, and the Oneida beat us easily. There is no news here of pri-
vateers. The U. S. consul, Mr. llogg, has gone home, probably to die,
and Mr. Trowbridge is acting. I am happy to say that my health is
improved, though I am not [at] all well yet.
	The authorities at Prince Rupert Bay pologized for the insult on my
former visit, the particulars of which apology I shall send you in a later
communication.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ED. T. NICHOLS,

Commander.
	Acting liear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron.


U S Na
Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, . . vy, commanding IVes(
india Squadron, regarding establishment of coal depots in the West
Indies.

U.	S. FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
At Sea, Lat. 22~ N., Long. 770 10 Th, ill arch 18, 1863.
	SIR: Iii mynote of the 25th February I called the atteiition of the
Department to the subject of coal and depots br the eQuvenience of
our cruising vessels, particularly at the Windward islands, as a sub-
ject of importance, having in view the efticiency of any force employed
in this direction, the object being to establish depots where we could
readily obtain coal without 1)nlchase, freeing us from tli~ exorbitant
prices often demanded for it, aimd of very inferior quality.
	The Department has already SOIRC places of deposit, but we are often
colnl)elled to buy or go without it. I have endeavored to avoid being
l)laced in this (lileluma, and have made a deposit at Pointe a Pitre,
Guadeloupe, of some coal remaining over of the cargo purchased to fill
up this vessel, the Oneida, and the Alabama, for which $7 per ton was
paid. It is one of the best and most commodious harbors in the West
Indies, and a port where information may be readily obtained, as
there is almost daily communication with the other islands of the
group, about 300 miles from St. Thomas and about 70 miles from Mar-
tinique. The authorities are quite willing, and indeed pleased, to have
us make a depot here. Its proximity to Martinique is of great advan-
tage, as the latter island is one which the rebel cruisers have heretofore
visited aiid coaled at. indeed there is now coal at St. l~ierre, some 600
tons, I understand, in the hands of the rebelliorm sympathizers, who
retain it for them. This island is well adapted for the escape of the
rebel cruisers; its roadsteads are open, and the land so high, and the
mists arising after nightfall so great as to make it extremely difficult to
detect vessel passing close to its shores which are bold and clear of
any
obstructions. For a single vessel to blockade these roadsteads, it is
almost impossible. I have resorted to the plan of having twoone to
Pierre.
l)e anchored at Fort de France, and tIme other at St.	only some
S imiles distant. They will be able, while lying at and mor, to per-
ceive anything in the offing, and can readily give chase. The fPct, too

Page 128

128	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.
of their presence will deter the rebel cruisers from seeking the anchor-
ages, for they can readily obtain information before reaching the island
that we are about, and if we are not fortunate tuough to get sight of
them in the offing, we wili have the ability to effectually blockade them
when in, aided at night by boats acting as vedettes.
Therels adepotofcoalat Curagao,some600or 700tons butthis
will require to be added to as soon as the Department can it. st.
Thomas is the other station where it is desirable to have a large supply
on handsay some i2500 tons. OQal hulks can be obtained to store It
in. The governor said to me that it would afford him great satisfaction
to giveany facility to our consul in establishing such a depot, to be
subject only to the regulations of the port .and harbor masters. I
instructed our consul that in case a cargo of the Welsh coal should
come in, and it could be purchased at a reasonable price, to obtain It
and procure ahulk for that purpose. Many large vessels are frequently
condemned here which would answer admirably for this purpose,
and  sold for a veiny small wont This carried into effect, we
would be independent and freed or the extortionate rices we have to
pay for coal, and likewise the difficulty of selling bills to pay for it,
besides saving the large discount, from 40 to 60 per cent, demanded
F As before mentioned, the Messrs. Latimer &#38; Co of San Juan, Puerto
Rico, are willing to receive the Government coal and keep it for our
vessels. They have a depot of their on and can accommodate as
much as It would be desirable to keep there. They are Americans and
full of loyalty, and from them I have had much important aid and infor-
mation. fley  prepared to assist us in every way in their power.
The harbor is one of the best, and the facilities afforded for coaling and
reitting are great.
The next point is Cape Haitien, on the north side of the island of San
Domingo. Here it is my intention to order the .Yatiossal Guard with
a supply of coalsay 1,000 tons. This harbor is a good one, very
healthy, and our coal vessels would be protected from the rebel cruisers.
it is agoodrestingstation for the crews, who,I need not tell you, rapidly
become exhausted. The proximity to. the Windward Passage and
those of Turks Island is a great advantage, and having thecoal in a
movable bottom, I will be enabled, in case of need, to send her wherever
it might be a great advantage for us to receive a supply of coaL
At the east end of Cubait is desirable that 1,000 or 1,500 tons should
be stowed, say, at St. Jago rSantiarl de Cubs, or at Cumberland Har-
be; a better port, some 60 miles nearer the east end, on the south side
of the island where it will be readily received and stowed for use on
very reasona6le terms.
	At The Havannak and Key West we  be supplied on the western
partof the station. It would be desirable for us to hayS our stock on
hand at The Havannak increased, there being now but some 500 or
600 tons of coal.
	It may not be out of placehere to mention that the averageconsump-
tion of coal by each vessel [otJ the squadron is from 350 to 400 tons per
month, and therefore it will not be difficult as theDepartment is aware
of the force employed, to have the requisiie amount of coal sent out to
the places above indicated in quantities of not less than 1,000 tons.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	leSs, Rear-Admiral,	.	CHszLEs WILKES,
Oommsadia~ wrest India Squadre.,
	Hon. GnrnoN WELLES,
Beeretary o,f the levy

Page 129

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	129

Report of Captain Pickering, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge,
of completed repairs to vessel and intended departure .Zor Eayal, Azores.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Cadiz, March 19, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform the Department of the completion
of repairs upon the machinery of this ship to-day at noon.
	As to the cause of the extraordinary length of time occupied, I can
otily offer, in explai~atioi~, the eiiclosed copy of a report from the chief
engineer upon that subject.
	Since the reception of the propeller shaft from the arsenal on the 4th
instant, the work has beeii vigorously pushed by our own force, late
and early, Sundays not excepted.
	The ship was taken out of dock on the 10th and brought to Cadiz on
the 17th instant for the reception of her 1)owder, coal, and provisions;
upon the completion of which work I shall proceed to Fayal, where
Captain Winslow awaits my arrival.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERING,
Captain.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander Collins. U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Octorara,
0/ the capture by that vessel of Confederate schooner Five Brothers, sloop
Rosalie, and ~Jnglish schooner John Williams.

U.	S. S. OCTORARA,
At Sea, Mcrch 22, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that on the morning of the 16th
instant we captured the Confederate schooner Firc Brothers and after
sending a prize crew on board we left her and steamed to the south-
ward and eastward to latitude about 260 50 iN. and longitude about
760 51 W., where we seized the Confederate sloop Rosalie.
	On the 17th instant Acting Master John A. Johnstone, and a prize
crew from this vessel, took charge of the Rosalie, with orders to cruise
toward Eleuthera Island in search of and to seize vessels violating and
intending to violate the blockade, and to meet the Octorara at an
appointed time and rendezvous, and while obeying snch instructions,
on the 19th instant, in latitude about 260 10 N., longitude about 760
51 W., he seized the English schooner John Williams, James Gage,
master, of 96 ,%% tons bnrden, of and from Nassan, New Providence,
bound to Beaufort, N. C., with the following cargo, as per clearance,
viz: 50 bars iron. 32 drums caustic soda, 100 bags saltpeter, 44 barrels
copperas, 77 casks crystals, 15 barrels salts, 12 tons iron, 32 cases
matches, 95 dozen pails, 41 dozen brooms, 15 carboys acid, 50 dozen
shovels, 11 kegs nails, 9 cases brushes, 1 cask hardware, and 1 cask
phosphorus. I take her, in company with the Rosalie, to Key West
for adjudication.
	I beg to commend Acting Master John A. Johustone for his energy
and zeal in making the capture of this notorious blockade runner.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
N.	COLLINS,
Commander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
	N xv RVOL II	

Page 130

130	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of arrival at Havana, Cuba, and giving substance of
conversation with (Jovernor Rot he, of St. Thoma~ West indies, regarding
	neutrality.	U. S. S. VANDERBILT,

Havana, iilareh 20, 1S63.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report my arrival at this port, in the Van-
derbilt, having left the Wachusett under the temporary conimand of
Lieutenant-Commander C. E. Fleming, at St. Thomas, to watch the
exit of the contraband runners then in port, and endeavor to capture
them when outside the neutral limits. For this she may be employed,
I hope, successfully.
	On the subject of the squadron lying at St. Thomas, apparently
watching the contrabands, I had some conversation with (~overnor
Ji~othe, which it may be well for me to state in this place. Tie frankly
told me that complaint had been frequently made to him by those inter-
ested in the contraband runners, about what they termed a blockade
inside and out. I at once put it to hint that there were vessels in the
harbor refilling and coaling forfuture operations, to run the blockade,
and to carry munitions of war to the rebels, and we were in these waters
to prevent them, if possible; that so far as the neutrality of the har-
bors and waters of these islands was concerned, we should take care to
observe it most strictly, and I trusted we should have no cause to com-
plain of the government affording aid and comfort to our enemies, as
had recemitly been attempted by some of the officials ot the island.
The island, ports were open to all, and these vessels being under English
colors were equally respected as our own. I should not complain of
their coaling and refitting, for I had no right to do so, but when they
reached the high seas we should act the part of a belligerent and over-
haul them. If they were honest they had nothing to apprehemid, but if
they proved to be laden with contraband articles, and without papers,
they would necessarily be sent in for adjudication. Therefore, whether
we lay at auchor or cruised off the port was of no conse(lueilce. He
seemed well satisfied with my statement that lie might rest assured
that no violation relative to neutrality would be committed. I made,
however, an exception, and told him frankly that, in case of time appear-
ance of the rebel pirates seeking shelter in this port, I would call upon
the government to imiterfere and detain them, and in the event of its
not taking prompt measures to tha~t effect, 1 should deem it to be my
duty, under the necessity of the ~case, to act as circumstances might
requmre.
	We left St. Thomas and passed down to the northward of Culebra
and along the north side of Puerto Rico to the Momma Passage, thence
alomig the mmorth side of San Domingo. We spoke and boarded several
vessels, among them two Spanish transports that laid carried troops
from The Havannah to their possessions omi Sami Domingo, to suppress
a revolution that had taken place against tIme Spanish mule, which I
understand has been effectually suppressed.
	Off Cape Nicolas Mole we fell in with the Santiago de Cuba, Com-
mander Ridgely, and Rhode Island, Commander Trenchard, which lat-
ter reported to me. They had been off this passage for somne twenty
da3is, and had visited the islands to the northward and southward.
After giving them orders and making other arrangements, we left at
10 p. in. on our way to The llavannah, passing down and examining
the Old Bahama Channel, and arrived in five days

Page 131

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	131

	I can not well describe to you the efficiency of this steamer and the
excellent condition of discipline she is in, and the many advantages she
affords for this particular cruising. Her speed is much beyond that of
any other steamer I know of and her armament i~ equal to anything
she can possibly have to encounter.
	In the examination of the orders of Acting Lieutenant Commanding
Baldwin, no reference is made of his reporting to me P~r duty, but the
Department having written some time since. aud mentioned that the
Vanderbilt would cruise here, in view of the exigencies of the service,
I have taken her under my command, and trust she will be permitted
to remain. Thoagh a large con suiner of coal, yet, taking into considera-
tion the service she performs, I look upon her as one of the most econom-
ical vessels in the squadron.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,

Acting Rear-Admiral, Comm anding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Lieutenant- Commander Fleming, U. S. Navy, commanding U.
S.	S. Wachusett, of the chase by that vessel of steamer Neptune.

U.	S. S. WACHUSETT,
Island of St. Thomas, March 20, 1863.
	SlR: In obeaience to your instrnctions to furnish you with informa-
tion relating to the movements of this ship, I have to state that yes-
terday morning the steamer Neptune (on our list) went to sea at 8:10
a. m. and I lost no time in followimig her, getting underway at 8: 3() and
crowding all sail and steam the entire day, both vessels standing to
the westward until 7 oclock p. in., when, losing sight of the chase, or
rather her smoke, for her hull had not been seen for somne hours previous,
I reluctantly turned to the eastward to proceed to niy station, and at
10 a. m. this mnorning came to anchor in this harbor.
	We had the wind very light during the day, else I think we might
have overhauled the chase, notwithstanding the tubes leaked badly in
both boilers, l)articularly the starboard one. Soon after my arrival
here was comnpelled to haul fires, and the engineers went iiniiiediately
to work plugging tubes. The steamer Dolphin (also on the list) came
in the day the Phacton left, and is still here.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHAS. E. FLEMING,
Lieutenant- Commander, Commanding.
	Acting Hear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron.


Report of Commander Nichols, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Ala
bama, of cruise from March 14 to 22, 1863.
U.	S. S. ALABAMA,
Cura9ao, March 22, 1863.
	ADMIRAL: I left the harbor of Pointe ~ Pitre about 10 a. m. of the
14th instant, in comupany with the U. ~. ~. Oneida, having waited unti

Page 132

132	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

this hour to obtain any news which might have been brought by the
British mail from Barbados and other islands. It being impossible to
reach St. Pierre before late at night, I availed myself of your verbal
permission to visit Prince Rupert Bay, where we passed the iiight.
Immediately upon anchoring I was waited npon by a gentleman of the
place, named McLeod, who, on behalf of himself and the people of the
town, expressed great regret at the rnde treatment we had officially
received on our former visit, and saying that if it had been known at
the time the regret would then have beeii expressed. lie also informed
me that the officer who sent the letter had been severely reprimanded
by the governor and ordered, in case of my return, to make a personal
and official apology. I saw nothing of Mr. Erskine during my stay.
	I was also officially waited npon by the magistrate of the district,
Mr. Win. R. Johnston, who, on behalf of himself and the governor,
tendered a handsome verbal apology for the unauthorized proceedings
of the nnder official who sent the communication on my first visit. Mr.
Johnston also tendered the civilities of the port, supplies, etc., which I
declined, and sailed at daylight on the 15th. When near St. Pierre, at
ll:30a. in., saw heavy smoke bearingS. S~ W. Both vessels started in
chase at full speed, the Oneida leading easily. At 2:15 p. m. discontin-
ned the chase, having made out the strangers to be two heavy frigates,
steering to the W. N. W. At 7 p. m. communicated with our consul at
St. Pierre and learned that the French frigates left Fort Royal in the
morning for Vera Cruz. These were the vessels we chased. During
the night passed St. Lucia, and on the 16th St. Vincent, the Grenadines,
an(l Grenada and anchored at Port of Spain, Trinidad, on the 17th.
No news here of any privateers. One American vessel in port from
Barbados. Mr. Trowbridge is acting as consul, Mr. Hogg having gone
home on account of illness.
	Oii the evening of the 18th anchored in a fine bay on the southwest
side of the principal island of the Testigos group. This anchorage is
a very fine one, well protected except from west and southeast; per-
fectly smooth, and with a depth of water from 5 to 15 fathoms; good
bottom. Found here an English schooner engaged in turtling, fishing,
and bird catching. At 4 a. m. of the 19th left this anchorage, coasted
the Frayles, a cluster of islets off the northeast point of Margarita,
thence passing through the channel south of that island, examining its
shores and the islands in the channel, and on the morning of the 20th
coasted the south side of Tortuga Island and thence to Blanquilla the
same evening.
	On the 21st examined Orchilla~ the Roccas [Los IRoques], East and
West Bird [Ayes] islands, and passing Buen Ayre in the night, arrived
in this harbor this morning. I hear a report, though the consul
can as yet give me no information about it, that the Florida was off
Surinain ten days since. I observed no increase in the crack in side
lever reported to you from Port of Spain, but I am sorry to say that I
shall be compelled in future to purchase water, as our condenser is irre-
trievably worn out, until we can get to a machine shop.
Hoping to have more interesting matter to communicate in my next,
I remain, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
En. T. NICHOLS,

Commander.
Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron

Page 133

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	133

Report of Lieutenant Allen, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Oneida, of
cruise in company with U. S. S. Alabama.

U.	S. STEAM SLO~P ONEIDA,
Cura!~ao, March 22, 1863.
	ADMIRAL:	I have the honor to report that in obedience to your
order of the 12th instant I filled up with coal an(l saile(l from Pointe
~Y Pitre on the 14th, in compaiy with U. S. S. Alabama, Comitiaiider
nichols, and arrived at this port this morning.
	Dnring the cruise we have coasted and examined the islands of
Marie Galante, Do minica,Martiniqne, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, Oxeitadines,
Grenada, Trinidad, Testigos, Margarita, Tortuga, I3lanqnilla, Orelijila,
Los Iloques, and Isles de Ayes.
	We anchored during the night of the 14th in Prince Rupert Bay, and
during the night of the 17th at Port of Spain, Trinidad. Oii the morn-
ing of the 15th discovered black smoke S. S. W. from Martinique, and
chased for three hours and a half, when it proved to be from two French
frigates standing S. W. Have seen no other vessels of importance
during the cruise.
hoping that the remainder of the cruise may be more successftil,
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WELD N. ALLEN,
Lieutenant Commanding, 1 5. Navy.
Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES, U. S. Navy,

Commanding West India Squadron.


Report of Commander Clary, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tioga,
of the capture by that vessel ~f English schooner Brothers.

U. S. GUNBOAT TIOGA,
At Sea, off Abaco, Lat. 2G~ N., Long. 7G~ 37 XV., ]liarch 22, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report the cal)ttlre of the English prize
schooner Brothers, S. J. Massingham, master, of and from Nassau,
bound to i3eaufort, N. C. The papers are all correct, but no certificate
from the American consul. Registered 43 tons. She has an assorted
cargo, principally contraband; liquors, medicines, lead, matches (30
cases), tin, leather, etc.
	This schooner was out of the usual route for the United States and
attempted to avoid us. I shall send her in to Key West iii charge of
Acting Masters Mate Otis A. Thompson for adjudication, forwarding
prize crew list.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, A. G. CLARY,

Commander, U. S. Navy.
lion. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, IVashington, D. C.


Report of Commander Clary, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tioga,
of the capture by that vessel of the English steamer Granite City.
U.	S. GUNBOAT TIOGA,
At Sea, off Eleuthera, Let. 25~ 30 N., Long. 750 53 XV.,
March 22, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report the capture of time English 5i(le-
wheel steamer Granite City, John MeEwan, Inaster, from Nassau, Ne

Page 134

134	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Providence, registered 463 toiis, without manifest or invoices, part of a
crew list, with a clearance for and purporting to be bound to St. John,
New Brunswick, officers and crew all told anftuntin g to 27 persons,
who I propose to land on one of two keys near Nassau. We find
among her papers a clearauce from the port of Wilmington, N. C., of
March 10, 1863. We discovered this steamer at daylight this morning
iiortheast of Eleuthera Island. Chasing her five honrs to the S. E. by S.,
stopping her with a shot over her in latitude as above. When boarded
by the prize officer, and asking for her papers, the captain remarked that
was of no nse; that he was ready to give her np. They had all their
baggage on deck, preparatory to leaving. As far as I can ascertain they
had been throwing overboard her cargo during the chase. We s~w that
they had been destroying their stores and the steamers nautical iustru-
ments, her captain proposing to blow her np and take to the boats.
	She has an assorted cargoin edicines, liqnors, salt, coffee, etc. I
suspect, however, her manifest has been withheld, as we are confident
she has powder on board. I have directed Acting Master Thomas
King to proceed to Boston or Portsmouth to await adjudication. I for-
ward also a prize crew list.
	I fonnd two letters among the baggage of the officers and crew of
this steamer addressed to parties iu Wilmington and Charleston.
There were thrown overboard from this steamer 150 bags coffee.
Steamer Granite City, iron hull.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, A. G. CLARY,

Gommander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Letter from Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Rear-Admiral Parragut, U. S. Navy, commanding
Western Gulf Blockading -Squadron, explaining the circumstance of his
having command of U. S. S. P. P. C~uyler and Oneida in the search for
C.	S. steamers Florida (Oreto) and Alabama.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP VANDEREILT,
Havana, March 23, 1863.
	M~ DEAR SIR: I perhaps owe you an apology for not writing to you
a line before, respecting the R. R. Cuyler and Oneida, ai A the circum-
stances in which they fell under my command in the hot pursuit of the
Oreto and Alabama. I make no doubt sufficient [reason 1 to excuse inc
if ally was necessary. Bailey had sent them over for the chase, and I
joined after being a few hours behind the Oreto, and we continued in
the chase as far as the Windward Islands wh
the IVachusett nearly broken down, and ~ ere I was obliged to leave
blockade search the various harbors the Oneida and Alabama to
	and	where the Oreto may have
taken refuge. She coaled at Barbados only twenty-seven days after
she had done so at Nassau, and subsequent to her destruction of the
Jacob Bell, and it is evident she has sought refuge iu some of the neigh-
boring islands and reefs, to effect repairs and get more coal. Under
these circumstances I desire to retain the Oneida. The P. P. Cuyler
has long since, I hope, joined you.
	I ought to state, also, that Captain Ilazard has entirely brokei~ down,
and under survey of surgeons is to return home from Key West in th

Page 135

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	135

first vessel. I need not, my dear sir, enter into further details, as I
well know and believe your views and wishes all correspond with mine,
and you will indulge in the hope that it may resul~ in the capture of
the (ire/a and Alabama.
	I have had quite a row with the governor of Barbados al)out the
coaling of the Oreto, and I think, although it can not well be proved,
that the governor of the Bahamas and the governor of Barbados bad
had an understanding, through letters brought by Maftitt from the
former, to afford him all facilities, notwithstanding her Britannic
Majestys proclamation.
Very truly and sincerely, yours, etc.,
CHARLES WILKES,
[Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
	Rear-Admiral 1). G. FARRAGUT, U. S. Navy,

Commanding Western Gulf Squadron.



Report of Lieutenant- Commander Fleming, U. S. Navy, commanding
U.	S. S. Wachusett, of the capture by that vessel of the English steamer
Dolphin.
U.	S. S. WACHUSETT,
At Sea, Lat. 190 28 N., Long. 650 30 W., March 25, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report (being temporarily in command of
this vessel) tl~at this morning at 5:15, while cruising in the passage
bet-ween the islands of Puerto Rico and St. Thomas~ saw a steamer
directly astern, which, after chasing for an hour and a half; I over-
hauled, and found her to be the English steamer Dolphin, from St.
Thomas, bound for Nassau. Suspicion being strong against her I
seized her, and have sent her, in charge of Acting Master A. W. Mul-
daum, to Key West, with all the papers found on board.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES P. FLEMING,
Lieutenant- Commander, U. S. Navy, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report ~f Lieutenant- Commander Fleming, U. S. Navy, commanding
U.	S. S. Waehusett, of the capture by that vessel of steamer Dolphin.

U.	S. S. WACHUSETT,
Island of St. Thomas, March 28, 1863.
	SIR:	I have to rel)ort that at ten minutes after midnight on the 25th
instant, the steamer Dolphin got underway and stood out of the harbor.
I lost no time in Ibilowing her. Slipped the cable at 12:20 (as per log),
and steamed after her, but the night being dark saw nothing of the
chase nntil daylight, when she was seen astern of us, both vessels
standing to westward between the islands of Culebra and Porto [Puerto]
Rico; brought the ships head round to the eastward and gave chase;
the Dolphin also altering her course in that direction, fired a blan

Page 136

186	orm~ion OF THE ORUIBflBUNION;
cartridge for her to heave to. She paid no attention to this, ad com-
menced firing at her with shot from the rifled gun on the forecastle,
which was done three times before she stopped4 when I sent a boat to
board, in charge of Acting Ensign B en, and his report,
together with an examination I had of her papers, and the strong
suspicion attached to her of intending to run the blockade, induced me
to capture her and to send herto Key West in charge of Acting Master
A. W. Muldaun
	I also transferred from this ship Second Assistant Engineer W Har-
rison Messinger and Third Assistant Engineer Henry Holmes, together
with 8 firemen and coal heavers, ad 10 men from this crew composed
of seamen, ordinary seamen, and landamen, taking from tie prize 2
~ 6 firemen, 1 carpenter, and 6 seamen.
	I returned here the evening of the 25th and anchored at 9 p. m.
Yesterday the above-mentioned men were landed and taken charge of
by the British consuL
The	D4,kia, vessel and cargo, is said to be valued at 60,000
Very respeotfofly, your obedient servant,
CHit E. FLEMING,
L~-Cwder. Cosms.
	Acting Bear-Admfral CHaLKs Wnn~





Report of.Closssaader MeDowga4 U. &#38; Navy, ooussand*s, U. &#38; &#38; 
Wyoming, of arrival atfiwalow, Chin, with injured weaseL

U. S. S. WyoxuiG,
Swat..., March *5, 1868.
	Sm: I have to report my arrival here on the 22d instant, five days
from Manilt
	Off the entrance to the river 1 took ailcensed European pilot, and on
our way up regret to state that we struck a rock which caused the
ship to leak so that I was compelled to run her ashore to prevent her,
filling. At the time of the accident the ship was going at the rate of
8 or 9 knots over the ground, the leadsmen in both chains gIving 5
fathoms water.
	On examination we found extensive leaks on both sides of the stem,
alsofourframetimbers under the magazinefloor crushed in, causing such
leaks that the engines and all pumps were unable to keep the water
from qaining. I immediately chartered a small sohooner in which all
provisions, ammunition and stores, etc., were put on boar&#38; .
	1 Sm in hopes by to-morrow or next day to get her afloat again. I
shall then proceed to Amoy and dock the ship. From there will make
you a more minute report of the ii~juries sustained. I encloui you a
report of the carpenters of the extent of the damage done as far as
canbeseen inside the ship.
	r	the honor tobe. very respectfully, your obedient servant,
D. MoDouGaL,
Oorasasder.
	Hon GiDEoN Wuzas,
Seerdtery of the Wavy, Washington

Page 137

OPERATIONS 01? THE CRUISERSUNION.	137

Report of Commander Cooper, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Connect-
icut, regarding convoy of mail steamers.

U.	S. S. CONNECTiCUT,
Bay of Aspinwall, March 2G, 1863.
	SIR: I respectfully report that after returning from convoying the
Arid I could not get this ship coaled in time toleave with the Nort kern
Light, owing to the wharves being occupied and the sea in the bay too
rongli to haul a vessel alongside.
	I will sail to-night for Puerto Bello,in order to careen the ship and
if possible to replace the copper which is off on the port side, forward
of the shaft, about 5 feet below the water line, to the extent of some
four or five sheets.
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant, G. H. COOPER,

Commanding U~ S. S. Connecticut.
Hon. GIDEoN WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, V. C.



[Telegram.]

MARE ISLAND, March 28, 1863.
(Received Washingtou 3:55 a. in., March 30.)
	Having been reliably informed that hostile military organizations
exist in the ii~ighboring counties, designed to attack this yard, I have
ordered the Saginaw to return here.
	THOS. 0. SELFRIDG-E,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	I Commandant.]
[Secretary of the Navy.]



Report of Commodore Thatcher, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. Ship
Constellation, of arrival at Spezia, Italy.

U.	S. 511w CONSTELLATION,

Spezia, illarch 29, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my arrival at Spezia on the 27th
instant, from Genoa, which port I left with this ship on the 25th.
After provisioning I shall sail on a cruise to the western part of the
Mediterranean, and I propose touching at Port Mahon for the purpose
of breakiiig out and cleansing the hold, preparatory to a summer
cruise. I shall also touch at the Sicilian ports, where a large number
of our commercial vessels are now resorting for cargoes.
	I respectfully request that the Department will be pleased to address
me at Genoa, as the U. S. consul at that port has the readiest facilities
for forwarding dispatches to all parts of this station by mail steamers.
	I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
H.	K. THATCHER,
Commodore.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, V. C

Page 138

138	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Acting Lieutenant Baldwin, U. ~. Navy, commanding U. ~. S.
Vanderbilt, of arrival at Key West, Fla., for coal, and of proposed
movements of that vessel.
U.	S. S. VANDERBILT,
Key West, iifarch 30, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of this ship at this port
on the 22d instant from Havana, having been ordered here to coal by
Rear-Admiral Wilkes and to return to Havana in ten days. We have
now our coal, say 1,100 tons, nearly all in, and shall finish scaling and
repairing boilers to-morrow, and in obedience to my orders I shall then
return to Havana.
	I had last the honor of addressing the Department on the 7th instant
from Barbados, duplicates of which I enclose. Since that date Rear-
Admiral Wilkes has had his flag on board this ship and has no doubt
kept the Department informed of her movements. Until the admiral
will permit, I can not, of course, carry out the orders I am nuder from
the.Department, but can only hope lie will have no further service for
this ship and will allow me to act in accordance with my instructions
after my arrival at Havana.
	It will very shortly be necessary for this ship to go North for the new
tubes I have heretofore reported as necessary and requested the
Department to order made, and also to have replaced the water fronts
in the forward boilers.
	If the tubes (say 1,200) are ready, the ship can go to New York, be
put in condition for two years further service, be coaled, provisioned,
and ready to sail again within three weeks after her arrival.
	Otherwi~e than what I have above referred to, the ship throughout
is in excellent order, tho ugh when she goes North I should recommend
that the steam chimneys, which now extend some 2 feet above the spar
deck, be cut off by valves close above the boilers. At present I have
them covered as well as possible by bags of coal on both main and spar
decks. This, in my opinion, is a very important matter, as at present,
in spite of protecting by coal bags, an unlucky shot might completely
disable our movements, at any rate, for the time being, besides killing
many of the crew by steam; at the same time the remedy is in our own
hands, and the job would not be very long or expensive. I hope the
Department will approve my suggestions.
	I regret to have to report the desertion, while in charge of a boat, of
Acting Master~s Mate George It. Griswold at Havana. I at once
requested our consul to offer a reward for his apprehension and if
arrested to have him kept in prison until the return of this ship. As
yet I am not aware of his having been found.
	I send by the U. S. transport Fair Haven the 7 prisoners received
from, the U. S. S. Alabama, who formerly belonged to the privateer
Retribution. The papers relating to their case have already been sent
home from St. Thomas by our consul there. Also I send the crew of
the British steamer Peterhoff (24 in number), seized by me as a prize,
and sent to this port for adjudication, but in the absence of the U. S.
district judge ordered by Rear-Admiral Bailey to Boston for that
purpose.
	As yet we are without further news of the Alabama or Florida. In
a day or two I shall be in a condition to follow theni a long distance.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	H. BALDWIN,
Acting Lieutenant, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. (I

Page 139

OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSUNION.	139

Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Rytinge, U. S. Navy, command-
ing U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp, of cruise covering the route of East
Indian and South American traders.

U.	S. SHIP SHEPHERD KNAPP,

[March 30, 1863.]
	SIR: In conformity with orders* issued by yourself of date 26th Feb-
ruary, I got underway at noon (Saturday) and proceeded to cruise, as
commanded, between the appointed parallels.
	I have cruised nearly as far west as Abaco, nearly as far north as
Bermuda, and for the last few days to windward of all the islands, hoping
to find the rebel ships, but all the steamers we have seen were legitimate
ships of foreign flags. I have covered the route of East India and
South American traders between the parallels of 180 30 N. latitude
and 27~ 30 N. latitude and the space between 600 W. longitude and
Abaco.
	The traverse courses I have steered upon the above-described dis-.
tance were agreeable to your orders, from which I have in no instance
deviated. I have entered no port since my departure, and agreeably
to your expressed order to returii to St. Thomas in thirty days, I have
the honor to report my ship with that punctuality which I trust will
always characterize
Your obedient servant,
fly. ST. C. EYTINGE, U. S. Navy,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding.
	Acting 11eaj~-Admiral CHARLES WILKES, U. S. Navy,

Commanding lVest India Squadron.

[Telegram.]

(Received 5:30 p. in., April 1, 1863, from San Francisco.)
	Authority is asked to parcha~e a steani tug for defensive use, and to
appoint officers. The enemies of the Union are organizing.

THoS. 0. SELFRIDGE,
[Commandant.]
Hon. GIDEON WELLES, Secretary Navy.


Letter from Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to the Secretary of the Navy, stating his desire to cul-
tivate friendly relations with the representatives of Great Britain.
FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
flavana, April 2, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your lettert of
the 14th of January, and in reply thereto beg leave to inform the
Department, as I have heretofore done, that it has been my desire and
uniform practice to cultivate a friendly feeling with tile officers of her
Britannic Majestys vessels wherever I may meet with them, and to
extend to them and to her Majestys representatives, in whatever
capacity, all customary courtesies, in the most liberal spirit.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
	Acting Rear-A dmtral, Coin ruanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES, Secretary of the Navy.
	*See p. 107.	ISee p.24

Page 140

140
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
india Squadron, regarding the return of U. S. steamers R. R. Onyler
and Oneida to Western Gulf Blockading Squad~n.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
Havana, April 2, 18G3.
	SIR: I havethe honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 6th
instant [ultimo], directing me to order the Oneida and P. N. Onyler to
return immediately to ]i~ear-Admira1 Farragut. In reply thereto I have
to state that the P. P. Onyler has returned to Rear-Admiral Farragut,
and that the Oneida will be sent after she performs the preseiit impor-
tant service she is on. I beg to inform the Department that it is very
desirable to have a vessel to relieve the Oneida. I have none at my
disposal but what are on equally important duty.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant
CHKRLES WILKES,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.



Report of the commandant navy yard, Mare Island, Cal., regarding
measures for the defense of San Francisco, transmitting copy of instruc-
tions to the commanding officer, U. S. S. Saginaw.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE,
Navy Yard Mare Island, April 2, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that in consequence of disclosures
made in the examination of persons found on board the J. 31. Chapman,
the schooner seized by the Cyane, which led to the belief that a depot
of munitions of war existed at Guadalupe Island, or on some islands
lying 011 our coast, intended to be used against the commerce of the
United States, I ordered the Saginaw on a short cruise down the coast,
with instructions which are herewith enclosed.
	On returning to the yard the same evening from San Francisco, it
was reported to me that the sheriff of Napa County, in my absence,
had brought intelligence that an org~nizatioim was forming, or had been
formed, in tim at county, by persons inimical to the Government, the
purpose of which was to attack this yard and destroy the public prop-
erty. Whereupon I countermanded my orders to the commander of
the Saginaw, and ordered her here for an additional means of defense.
	Th~ sheriffs report has been confirmed from other sources, and I
have reason to think the State and military authorities are preparing
to act in the matter.
	I have made such a disposition of my forces as will prevent surprise,
and enable me to make a successful resistance should an attack be
made. If an attack is imminent, I shall order np the (yane.
	The volunteers from Vallejo, employ6s of the yard, are now drilling
for defense, numbering two companies of 70 men each.
I remain, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
THOS. 0. SELFRIDGE,

Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, 1). C

Page 141

OPERATIONS OF	THE CRUISERSUNION. 141
[Enclosure.]

SAN FRANCISCO, CAL.% March 26, 1863.

	SIR: You will proceed in the Saginaw to the island of Guadalupe,
on the Mexican coast, where it is supposed there is a depot of muni-
tions of war intended to be used against the commerce of the United
States; and after a careful reconnoissance, if you find such a depot you
will take such measures in the premises as circumstances will justify
without an infringement of the neutrality law.
	You will also touch at the ports of San Quentin and Senos [Cerros ~]
to see if there are any vessels at those places which are fitting out as
privateers, and if any such are discovered you will confer with the
U. S. consuls and the local authorities before any action is takeii on
your part.
	After executing this duty you will visit for the same objects the
several islands of our own coast, near Santa Barbara and in that vicin-
ity, touching at San Diego, if necessary, to replenish your coal. If
practicable, you will return to this port within thirty days.
	In executing these orders you must exercise great discretion and
prudence, iu order to avoid the violation of neutral rights.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
Tuos. 0. SELFRIDGE,

Commandant.
	Lieutenant-Commander W. E. HOPKINS,
Commanding U. S. S. Saginaw, San Francisco, Cat.



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of the insufficiency of the forcc under his command
for the capture of C. S. steamers Alabama and Florida.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERB1LT,
Havana, April 3, 1863.
	SIR:	I wish again to call your attention to the necessity of increas-
ing my force. I have dwelt on this subject ever since my arrival in
this quarter, and daily I see the advantages it would give me to have
an increase. I presume the Department is as anxious as I am for the
capture of the A labama and Florida, or at least to drive them from
these seas, to ren tiler the voyages of our commercial vessels to and from
these ports safe and unmolested. I am satisfied, as I have heretofore
written yon, that it can be (lone with the proper force. The vessels I
have now in the squa(lrou are actively employed at those points where
the Confederate l)rivateers will resort to intercept our vessels, and
where the greatest chance is for umaking captures. I can not well
detail to you the views I entertain as to the capture of the rebel
pirates, but I am narrowing down their area of operations, and with
more force I shall eventually make them quit these seas, if they are not
captured. I have before stated that it is necessary the vessels I have
should be fully efficient and have speed.
	If I am to have an increase it is absolutely necessary for the vessels
to be here within forty days, so that I may be ready for the rebel
pirates when they repair to the l3ritish islands to coal., which they
must do.
	Within the last month we have made many captures, and the Con.
federates are now resorting to very many dodges to avoid us. They
pass rapidly from one port to another to escape our cruisers, the whcre

Page 142

142	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

abouts of which they endeavor to procure information, but fail, as I
invariably send the vessels to sea with sealed orders to avoid any
chance of their destination being known.
	Of the Juniata I have not yet seen anything. I shall await her coming
here a reasonable time. Upon her arrival, of course, depends the return
of the Wachusett, which vessel, though iii a disabled condition, is doing
good service at St. Thomas, preventiiig that place becoming the resort
of the contraband runners to refit, etc. As soon as the Juniata arrives
I shall make the transfers and order the Wachusett home.
	I regret to lose the services of Captaiii Itidgely and Commander
Stevens. They have both become well acquainted with the cruising
grounds and the dodges, as they are termed, of the rebels.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	P. S.IR. W. Shufeldt, esq., late consul-general at The Havannah, goes
home by this opportunity to report himself to the Navy Department
under his new commission. I can refer the Departmeiit to him as well
acquainted with my views and the exigencies of this service and how
important it is that my force should be promptly increased.
I am, respectfully,
CHARLES WILKES,
Acting Rear-Admiral.


Report of Captain Pickering, IT. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kear-
sarge, of at-rival at Eayal, Azores.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Fayal, April 5, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of the U. S. steam sioop
Kearsarge at Fayal at 5 p. in. to-day, after a cruise around the princi-
pal islands forming the group of Western Islands. Officers and crew
all well.
I have the honor to be, respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	W. PICKERING,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Acting Volunteer Lieutenant -Bytinge, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp, to cruise for thirty days off
Mona Passage, West indies.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
Havana, April 5, 1863.
	SIR - You will proceed to the Mona Passage and cruise off and
through it, particularly. at the northern entrance, as I consider it very
probable that the rebel privateers, from the information I have, may
make for that passage iii order to intercept our merchant vessels bound
through it. It will be necessary for you te disguise your vessel whei

Page 143

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	143

in this locality, so that you may induce them to attempt your capture
until you get them within range of your battery, when, I am satisfied,
you will give a good account of yourself. I may inall probability fall
in with you off the passage iu the course of fifteen days. You will
obtain what information you can if any Confederate vessels have been
seeu off the Mona Passage, by communicating with Mayaguez, on the
west end of Puerto Rico. The duration of your cruise will be thirty
days, at the end of which time you will return to St. Thomas, where
you will find me or orders.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West india Squadron.
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Commanding II. S. EYTINGE,
Commanding Ship Shepherd Knapp.


Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Lieutenant- Commander Fleming, U. S. Navy, com-
manding U. S. S. Wachusett, to arm two boats to overhaul contraband
runners.
FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
havana, April 5, 1863.
	SIR: I have received your two letters, and regret that, owing to the
rupture of the boilers of the Wachusett, you could not overhaul the Pet.
The Neptune has arrived here; she made no report of being chased.
The Dolphin, Mr. Muldaur, came in here out of coal, was supplied, and
went to Key West, where she has been delivered over to the court.
Mr. Muldaur, the engineers, and the crew have joined the squadroii
this morning.
	In case the defects of the Wachusetts boilers continue, I wish you to
arm two boats for the purpose of overhauling any of the contraband
runners which you may not be able to follow. They will necessarily
have to be provisioned for three days and be supplied with sails, etc.,
and, in case of boarding, to have it done beyond 3 miles distance.
	The Gemsbok will, if she has arrived, cruise off the island ,and the
boat or boats from the Wachusett, one with the gun in her, may be
employed with the Gemsbok, rendezvousing on board of her at night,
which will prevent the escape of any steamers.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Lieutenant-Commander C. E. FLEMING,
Commanding Steamer Wachusett.


Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Cavendy, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. bark Gemsbok, to cruise off St. Thomas, West Indies,
for interception of blockade runners.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
havana, April 5, 1863.
	SIR: You will get your command in condition to cruise off the har-
bor and island of St. Thomas for the purpose of intercepting any o

Page 144

144	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

the Confederate or contraband runners who may be seeking that harbor
for the purpose of recruiting, or who have ~efitted there. I have
directed Lieutenant-Commander C. E. Fleming, of the Wachusett, to
arm one or two boats to be employed with you in this service, so that
there may be no opportunity of their effecting [an] escape.
	After you leave the inner harbor of St. Thomas you will anchor at
times in the outer roads to procure information, which you will be able
to do from the Wachuseit. You will be ready at all times to slip and
niake chase. If the boats crews require provisions, etc., you will sup-
ply them.
	I depend upon your keeping a careful watch over the contraband
vessels, and,although they may be steamers, with the assistance of the
boats you may be able to effect their examination and capture if they
prove to have contraband on board. Bear in mind, however, that if a
capture, after examination, proves necessary, the neutrality limits must
not be infringed upon.
I am, etc.,
[CHARLES WILKES,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.]
	Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Commanding Enw. CAYENDY,

Commanding Bark Gemsbok.


Letter from the U. S. consul at Liverpool to the U. S. consul at Fayal,
Azores Islands, regarding the equipment of Confederate vessels at that
port.

U.	S. CONSULATE
Liverpool, April 5, 1863.
	The steamship Gibraltar, late Sumter, is now ready for sea. She has
been repaired and strengthened, and, though ill fitted for a war vessel,
she is in better condition for it than before.
	About fifty men have been engaged for her by the same man who
picked up the crew for the Alabama, and I have been informed, whether
true or not I can not be certain, that all or part of the men now being
engaged are to go to the Alabama.
	Be that as it may, it is certain the Gibraltar can not require 50
men for her own use as a merchant vessel, and I call your attention to
the circumstances that you may take all practical means of having her
taken.
	She has a black hull, with a broad white ~tripe round her at present;
has a rail and netting all round. Round stern
piece; flush deck.	, with an eagle for center-
	A few days since some seventy-five or eighty men were taken from
here to Glasgow for a steamer called now the Japan, but which was
launched as the Virginia and well understood to be for the South and
intended for a privateer. She is being cleared from Glasgow for Shang-
hai. On Monday last a vessel called the Castor cleared from here for
the same place with about forty men on board instead of her usual com-
plement of about fourteen. She was cleared by the same man (Jones &#38; 
Co.) who sent the men down for the Japan.
	There are also here, and pearly ready for sea, two vessels built for
Fraser, Trenholm &#38; Co., the Confederate agents. One is known to be
a gunboat and is now called the Alexandra. She is a small vessel of
very great strength, built of wood, amid probably designed to carry on

Page 145

145
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
or two very heavy guns. The other is a steel plate, now called the
Phantom, not apparently suited for a privateer. She is about 200 feet
and above 500 tons.
	Fraser, Trenhoim &#38; Co. have also a large screw steamer called the
Southerner nearly ready for sea. She is very heavily plated and strong,
has ports, and there is some probability she also may be intended for a
privateer.
THOMAS II. DUDLEY.
C.	W. DABNEY, Esq., Fayal.



Instructions of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding
West India Squadron, to Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. S. Sonoma, in regard to cruise of that vessel.

FLAG-STEAMER WAcIIUsETT,
Havana, April 7, 18G3.
	SIR: You will proceed with the Sonoma from this port to the south-
ward and westward along the island of Cuba, and thence as far as
Alacran, off the coast of Yucatan, which you will carefully examine as
to whether there is or has been any vessel refitting, and what facilities
it aftbrds for that purpose. After making this examination you will
pass along the coast of Yucatan, look into the harbor of iMugeres,
thence to the Swan Islands, to the southward and westward of the
Grand Cayihan, which you will also examine. Stop at the Grand Cay-
man, where you may obtain information. In case of receiving any of
importance, and you find it will require much time to investigate it,
you will make steam for the harbor of St. Nicolas Mole, where you will
find nie or orders.
	The time that this duty will occupy you, it is believed, will not require
more than ten days. it is desirable that your arrival at Cape [St.
Nicolas Mole should not be delayed longer than the 20th of this month.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[CHARLES WILKES,]

	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander T. H. STEVENS,
Commanding Steamer Sonoma, West India Squadron.



Instructions of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Na~y, commanding
West India Squadron, to Commander Clitz, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. S. Juniata, regarding cruise of that vessel.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
Havana, April 7, 1863.
	SIR: You will, with as little delay as possible, fill up with coal, pro-
ceed to sea, and cruise between the Colorado Heef or Bahia Honda
and Cardenas, stretching over toward the Tortugas, to intercept the
contraband runners. You will from time to time touch in at Havana
to communk~ate with our consul-general, Mr. Savage, who will afford
information as to the whereabouts or expected movements of the con-
traband runners.
N W RVOL ii

Page 146

146	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	After the first coaling you will coal at Key West. Should you receive
orders from me to proceed to the windward you will fill up with provi-
sions, small stores, etc., and coal at Key West~and pass up the Old
Bahama Channel, if not otherwise directed, touching on your way at
the harbor of Cape [St.j Nicolas Mole, on the west end of San J)omingo.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[CHARLES WILKES]
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander J. M. B. CLITZ, U. S. ~avy,
Commanding Steamer Janiata, West India Squadron.


Report of Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, of assuming command of U. S. S.
Kearsarge, and of the rumored presence of C. S. S. Alabama, together
uith other suspicious vessels, in the Azores.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Eayal, April 8, 1863.
	SIR:	1 have the honor to report that, after a detention at this place
of three months and a half, I have this (lay, iii obedience to the orders
of the Department, relieved Captain Pickering in command of this
vessel.
	During my continuance at this place, and particularly within the last
month, 1 have noticed the appearance of several susj)icious steamers,
which, without affording any information of their character, have cruised
from island to island, evidently in search of coiisorts. The last of these
vessels a new steamer under English colors, and deeply laden, ran close
into this harbor, dipping her flag three times~ a~nd then stood off to the
southward and eastward. More recently information has been receive(l
that a steamer answering in every particular to the description of the
Alabama was seeii off Flores on the 22d ultimo. This steamer, when
last seen after pursuing and speaking a bark (supposed to be English),
stood to the eastward.
	From these circumstances, together with the establislunent of late
coal depots at Terceira and St. Michaels by Southern sympathizers, it
may be inferred that the enemy and his abettors will seek these points
for supplies during the summer months. I shall, therefore, should
causes of more importance not arise to justify a modification, cruise
about these islands and Madeira t
and Cadiz.	, ouching occasionally at Gibraltar
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNO. A. WINSLOW,
Captain.
llon~. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander MeDougal, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Wyo-
ming, of intention to proceed to Japan when repairs are completed.

U.	S. S. WYOMING,
Amoy, April 8,1863.
	SIR:	I reported in my dispatch from Swatow the unfortunate acci-
dent occurring [to] this ship by striking a rock in entering that harbor.
After securing the leak as well as possible, I proceeded to this place,
arriving on the 1st instant

Page 147

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	147

	Yesterday we docked the ship and found the injuries not as exten-
sive as I anticipate(l. About 8 feet of the keel and forefoot is entirely
gone, showing on the starboard side the lower e~ds of the cant tim-
bers; ou the port bow four frames crushed in the space injured is cir-
cular and about 6 feet iu (lialneter. I hope to l)e afloat agaiu in ten
days, and as soou as possible shall proceed to Shanghai, touching at
Foo-Chow.
	Nearly the whole of the English fleet in these seas under the com-
mand of Admiral Kuper is now in Japan for the purpose of making a
demonstratiou ou that Government for the murder last summer of aii
Englishman named Richardson; also the attack and assassinatiou of
two of the guarda at the English legation in Yeddo.
	As everything is quiet in China waters I shall proceed to Japan, so
as to give protection to our countrymen in case of hostilities.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
D.	MODOUGAL,
Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of apparent intention on the part of British cruisers
to protect contraband runners.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
Havana, April 8, 1863.
	SIR:	I have to inform the Department that it appears to be the
intention of the British cruisers to protect the contraband runners by
convoy. I am not yet infiirmed if this emanates from the authority of
the admiral of the station, but as far as 1 can learn it is made to the
commanders of her Britannic Majestys vessels by the British consuls
and vice-consuls. Captain Vansittart, R. N., of H. B. M. S. Ariadne,
called on board to see me relative to a note from her Britannic Majestys
consul-general in Cuba, wherein the request was made of him, relative
to the contraband runner Ruby, oim our list of vessels, which vessel has
run the blockade several times arid reached the port of Matanzas from
Nassau, where she had landed her cargo, and is to come from Matanzas
to this l)ort to repair. I ~)romptly sent tire Sonoma to ascertain abont
her and learned she was then in ballast and her papers all right.
Captain Van Sittarts visit was a very friendly one. He wished to show
me the origin of his action in the most kind and frank manner. In
the consul-generals dispatch a charge was made against Commander
Stevens of making threats at Matanzas to take the vessel, and that
the Sonoma was awaiting for the Ruby theresimilar to the one against
myself, which I replied to a short time since, which came from Earl
Russell. Captain Van Sittart was greatly surprised to learn that the
Sonoma was lying within hail of this steamer making repairs, which at
once contradicted the whole statement of the consul-general, Mr.
Crawford, and Commander Stevens states to nie that there is not a
shadow of truth as to himself or threats made by him. This Mr.
Crawford is, I regret to state, wholly untrustworthy, and has given
currency to these rel)orts, if they have not originated with himself.
	I have to state that the Pet, at St. Thomas, is said to have asked [fori
and obtained convoy in going out. IAetitenant-Commnander Flemin

Page 148

148	OPERATI ~NS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

informs me that the Wachaseit could not follow her to sea, in consequence
of the steam being oft and the boilers tinder repair; she would other
wise have followed and overhauled her when beyond the limits.
	You will see that a difficulty may arise iii respect to this taking con-
traband runners under convoy, aiid thus prevent, if l)ossible, their
examination. 1 sli all take all I)Iecalition ary in easures anti give such
orders to the commanding officers of the squa(lroIi as the circumstances
may require.
I am, very respectfully, your o1)edient servant
CHARLES WILKES,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Commander Bryson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. 8. 8. Chippewa,
of intended departure from A igeciras, AS~pain, in obedience to orders.

U.	S. GUNBOAT CHIPPEWA,
Off Algeciras, Spain, April 10, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the recept of orders, dated
March 14 and received on the night of April 9, directing me to proceed
with the Chtppewa to Port Royal, S. C., and report to Rear-Admiral
Du Pont for duty in the south Atlantic Blockading Squadron. 1 shall
leave here ta-morrow morning, April 11, in obedience to said crders.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
A.	BRYSON,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Nary, Washington, D. C.


Correspondence between the governor of St. Thomas, West Indies, and
Actiug Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, regardin.g the infringement
of the neutrality of that port by United States vessels of war.

Letter from lieutenant-governor of St. Thomas, West Indies, to officer in command of United
States vessels in that harbor, transmitting copy of letter to Admiral Wilkes, U S. Navy.

GOVERNMENT HOUSE,
St. Thomas, April 10, 1863.
	SIR:. Enclosed I have the honor to communicate to you copy of my
letter, dated time 6th instant, to Admiral Wilkes, as commaimding the
United States vessels of war in the West India Station, the original of
which letter has this day beemi taken charge of by the U. S. consul iii
this place for transmission to the admiral by the earliest opportunity.
	The adumiral, who was expected here for sonic time, having not yet
arrived, I have considered it my duty to draw your attention, as the
officer in command of the United States vessels of war now in this liar-
bor, to the contents of the letter and the demand therein made in behalf
of my Government.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
ROTHE.
The OFFICER IN COMMAND OF THE U. S. MEN-OF-WAR
IN THE HARBOR OF ST. THOMAS

Page 149

OPERATIONS OF	TH1~ CRUISEhSUNION. 149
[Enclosure.]

GOVERNMENT HOUsE,
St. Thoh~as, April 6, 1863.
	SIR: During my different interviews with your Honor, and especially
during my visit on board of the Vanderbilt on the 14th last mouth, I
had the pleasure of receiving from you the most courteous and friendly
assuraiice that it was the sincere wish of your Government and of you 
self that the United States vessels of war, when in this harbor, should
most strictly abstain from and avoid any act that might be considered
as an infringement on the sovereign right of the Danish Government
over this harbor and the maritime territory of this island, or as injuri-
ous to those interests which it is bound to guard and protect.
	While I at the same tune had the satisihetion of confirming to your
Honor that my Government was most anxious to secure to the vessels
of war of the U. S. Navy, under the present circumstances, to the
same extent as hitherto, those advantages which this harbor offers
and which, under all ordinary circumstances, are equally conceded to all
vessels of war or merchautmen under the flag of friendly nations, I
could not omit stating to your Honor that such concessions could under
no circumstances be considered to admit or warrant any acts or pro-
ceedings by which the stay of such vessels of war here or on the terri-
tory was made use of for the purpose of originating, or making prepara-
tions for overhauling and persecuting vessels entering or going out of
this harbor.
	I did not at that time think it proper to raise any discussion on the
question inhow far the proceedings against the English steamer, the
Peterhoff, by the Vanderbilt could be considered as acts of the last-
mentioned description, while I had no official knowledge of the real
nature and final result of those proceedings, and you at the same time
did declare that you did not feel warranted. to give me any informatiou
on said subject.
	Sincethen a succession of facts has forced upon the notice of the author-
ities here that the stay of the United States man-ofiwar at this place has
been made nse of for the just-mentioned purposes with respect to mer-
chant vessels, which, according to their official papers and the general
rules for admittance to this port, were qualified to the same privileges
and protection enjoyed here by all vessels under the flag of friendly
nations. In one instance, viz, the Neptune, the U. S. man-of war Wachu-
sett, having altered her station to the entrance of the harbor, did slip
her anchor immediately when said vessel went out, persecuted and
seized her on the same day, in the vicinity of Crab Island, and returned
with 16 men of her crew, which were landed here.
	It needs no explanation that proceedings of this kind are injurious
to the interests of this place and infringing on that perfect liberty and
security on coming to and leaving this harbor and transacting business
here, which liberty and safety are indispensable to the welfare of this
place as a free port.
	With this interest in view, it becomes imperative upon me, in behalf
of my Government, to address the distinct demand to your Honor to
take the necessary steps to prevent effectually, on the part of the United
States men-of-war in this harbor or in the maritime territory of this
island, all acts of preparing and commencing the persecution, overhaul-
ing, and capture of any vessel admitted to free commercial intercourse
with this place, as on the whole all acts and proceedings that may rea-
sonably create uneasiness and iiisecurity for any class of merchant
vessels visiting this harbor

Page 150

150	OPERATIONS 01? THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I feel confident that your Honor will find this, my demand, justified
in acknowledged law and justice, as well as in the courtesy which the
Danish Government always expects from the U. ~. Government and its
officers.
	Hoping for an early acknowledgment of the receipt of this letter, I
beg to repeat to your Honor the assurance that it is the sincere wish
of my Government to continue, as hitherto, to secure to the vessels of
war of the U. S. Navy the full enjoyment of all those opportunities
and facilities offered in this harbor to vessels of all friendly nations.
	1 have the honor to be, with distinguished consideration, sir, your
obedient servant,
IROTHE.

	Admiral WILKES,
Commanding the United States Vessels of Waron West India Station.


Letter from Lieutenant-Commander Fleming, U. S. Navy, senior officer present, to the lieu-
tenant-governor of St. Thomas, West Indies, denying any infringement of neutrality in that
port by United States vessels.

U.	S. S. WACHUSETT,
Island of St. Thomas, April 11, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excellencys
letter of the 10th instant, enclosing copy of a communication dated
0th April, addressed to Rear-Admiral Charles Wilkes co
chief of the United States West India Squadron. , mmander in
My attention, as senior officer present, having been called by your
Excellency t~ the contents of that letter, I have to state that neither
this steamer nor any other vessel of war belonging to my Government
has remained here for the purpose of originating or making prepara.
tions for overhauling and pursuing vessels entering or going out of this
harbor. I have to state also that your Excellency has been misin-
formed with regard to the alleged chase and seizure by this vessel, in
the vicinity of Crab Island, of the steamer Neptune, returning the same
(lay and landing 16 men of her crew here. It did not occur.
	Permit me to renew to your Excellency the assurance that it is the
sincere wish of the U. S. Government, inyself, and the officers under
my command, to cultivate the friendly relations now existing between
the Danish Government and our own, aiid to avoid any act on our part
that might have the least tendency to disturb thosesrelations.
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant,
CHARLES E. FLEMING,

Lieutenant-Commander, Commanding, and Senior Officer Present.
His Excellency the LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR
OF THE ISLAND OF ST. THOMAS.


Letter from the lieutenant-governor of St. Thomas, West Indies, to Lieutenant-Commander
Charles E. Fleming, U. S. Navy, regarding infringement of neutrality.

GOVERNMENT HOUSE,
St. Thomas, April 13, 1863.
	SIR: I beg to acknowledge receipt of your esteemed letter of 11th
instant, and I regret the mistake of name which has taken place on
my part with regard to the Neptune. The name of the vessel treated
on is the Dolphin, not the Neptune. As for the facts mentioned, I hope
you will find them to be correct

Page 151

151
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
	I have not expressly said in my letter that United States men-of-war
remaiu here for the purposes, etc., but the United States inca-of-war
have, during their stay here, iu a succession of in~tances, made use of
such stay for the purposes, etc. Nevertheless, I notice your plain
assurance on said poiut.
	J feel gratified by your friendly assurances toward the end of your
letter, and I interpret the same as an acknowledgment that the dis-
tinct demand, which on the 6th instant I addressed to his Honor
Admiral Wilkes9 in the letter of which I had the pleasure to forward
you a copy on the 9th instant, is perfectly justified iu acknowledged
law and justice.
I beg to remain, your most obedient servant,	RoTIIE.

CHAS. E. FLEMING-,
Commanding Officer of the U. S. Men.of-war
In the Harbor of St. Thomas.


~.etter from lieutenant-governor of St. Thomas, West Indies, to Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes,
U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, correcting the name, as stated in previous
letter, of English steamer seized by U. 5. 5. Wachusett.

GOVERNMENT HousE,
St. Thomas, April 14, 1863.
	SIR: Having ascertained that an error has been committed in copy-
ing the letter I on the 6th instant had the honor of forwarding to yoa
thron gli the U. S. consul at St. Thomas, viz, that the name of an
English steamer seized in the vicinity of Crab ISlan(l by the Waehusett
was given as the Neptune, while its name in reality was the Dolphin (16
men of which were after the seizure landed here), I beg to apologize
for said error, trusting to yonr kindness that you will have an alteration
made accordingly in the said letter.
	I have the honor to be, with distinguished consideration, sir, your
obedient servant,
BOTHE.
Hon. ADMIRAL WILKES,
Commanding the United States Squadron in the West Indies.



Letter from Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, to the lieutenant-governor of St. Thomas,
West Indies, expressing the wish on the part of the U. S. Government to hold the neutral
territory of Denmark sacred from violation.

U.	S. FLAG-STEAMER YANDI~RBILT,
Harbor of St. Thomas, April 30, 1863.
	Sin: On my anchoring in this harbor this moriiing I had the honor
to receive your Excellencys letter of the 6th of April. As public busi-
ness calls mc away for a few days, I have no time to answer your Excel-
lencys dispatches upon the subject of which you write. I have to state
that the information with which your Excellency has been furnished
by parties is very far from the truth, as has been already stated in the
reply to your Excellencys letter by Lieutenai it-Corn m ander Fleming.
	On my return, in a few days, I shall have the honor of paying my
respects to you and then avail myself of the opportunity of again assur-
ing you of the unaltered disposition oii my part, expressed to you i

Page 152

152	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

the cOininunication referred to iii your disl)atch, to hold the neu~ra1 tet-
ritory of Denmark sacred from any violation by the squadron under
my command. This is the great wish of my Gov~rttineut, and I have
again to assure you that my exertions will, with all those under my
command, be used for this purpose.
	iLtenewing to you my fall consi(lerations of your Excelleiicys atten-
tions to my countrymen and myself,
I have the honor to subscribe myseW your most obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West india Squadron.
	His Excellency Lieutenant-Govern or BOTHE,
Of the Island of St. Thomas.


Letter from AcAing Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, to
the Secretary of the Navy, transmitting correspondence with the lieutenant-governor of
St. Thomas, West Indies.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDER]3ILT,
St. Thomas, May 16, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to enclose a copy of my letter to Lieutenant-
Governor iRothe, of St. Thomas, and his reply, referred to in my letter
to the Department numbered 57.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
4cting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Nary.
[Enciosures.]

U.	S. FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
St. Thomas, May 13, 1863.
	SIR:	I had the honor, on my arrival off St. Thomas on the 30th of
April last, to address you a note stating that I had received your dis
l)atcli of the 6th of April, and that I would at an early day reply to it.
Previous to doing so I must acknowledge the attention that the vessels
belonging to my squadron have always received in the ports of his
Danish Majesty and the uniform kindness bestowed upon myself and
officers by his Majestys representatives.
	That some misconception should have arisen in consequence of the
presence of our war vessels in yonr friendly port was naturally to be
expected, especially from those who sympathize with the rebellion, but
I did not believe they would have time hardihood to make such repre-
sentations as would aftbrd yen any uneasiness about us.
	Vessels of war are supposed to be always fully equipped, and no
preparations other than those they have already made are needed.
Our object in visiting your port is to obtain a supply of coal and pro-
visions, as well as to effect rel)airs, generally of a trivial character,
that the machinery of steam vessels constantly requires.
	The idea of our using your harbor to make preparations or of infring-
ing npon your neutral territory has never been conceived, and I flatter
myself that when the facts are stated it will not appear that we have
in any case done so, but, on the contrary, have avoided making cap-
tures when it was ascertained that we were within the limits of his
Danish Majestys territory

Page 153

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION-	153

	I will now frankly state to you the circumstances under which the
Peterhoff was made a prize, which, in the conversation I had with you,
I was unable to mention. The Peterhoff, before her arrival at St.
Thomas, was chased by the Alabama to the eastward of this port, and,
she immediately sought these neutral waters, and before being boarded
she had reached, accordii ig to the bearings, the neutral ground, and,
although her character was well known, she was permitted to pass, but
the captaiu of the Alabama refused, on being requested, to endorse her
papers; she therefore reached your port without hindrance. Had she
been overtaken a half mile further from the shore ,she would have beeu
made prize of at that time. She remained at St. Thomas some days,
refitted alongside of my vessel, and took her departure without being
followed by us, or eveu the idea of doing so. At this time it so hap-
pened that the Vanderbilt made her appearance off this port, and signal
was made to her to overhaul and examine the Peterhoff. This she did
at some 15 miles from the land, and found, as I had anticipated, that
she was without papers or clearance from London. She had upward
of 600 tons of cargo, and only bills to show that she had 17 boxes of
tea. No manifest was found, nor bills of lading. She had on board
several passengers of a suspicions character. One has since proved to
be a colonel in the Confederate service. She had also a large dispatch
addressed to the Confederate Secretary of War, which was thrown
overboard, being well loaded, and sunk. The second officer has given
his testimony, on oath, to this effect. Now, as the Vanderbilt had not
anchored in your port, and had only just arrived from distant service,
I presume there will be no doubt in your mind of the fact that there
was no preparation made in your port with a view to her capture, and
therefore I deem it quite unnecessary to say anything more upon the
subject.
	I will now revert to the other instances. You are well aware that
in a few days after the occurrence above alluded to all the vessels of
my squadron left your port, except the iVaehusett, and she would have
done so if her machinery had been in order. She has been long under
repair, and is now only waiting for her relief to leave for the United
States. After her machinery was in order, it became necessary to try
it, and, being ready about the time of the departure of the Neptune, she
went to sea when she did. The Neptune escaped, but has since run the
blockade.
	The next cases were those of the Aries and Pet, both of which vessels
sailed from here, and no endeavor w~s made to follow them, the assur-
ance having been given me, although I believed to the contrary, by
1)crsons of the highest character in St. Thomas, that they were legiti-
mate and bona fide traders. The fiyst of these vessels has been cap-
tured. in attempting to run the blockade, and the other is now prepar-
ing for the same object at Nassau. Fears, I know, were entertained by
the agents for these vessels, and an application was made to you by
the parties interested to interfere with our sailing or following them,
and which induced you to seek the interview with me just previous to
my sailing at that time.
	I come now to the last case, that of the 1)olphin, which the Waehusett
made a prize of. The Dolphin, it was well understood, was loaded with
contraband articles, and intended to run the blockade. I believe no
one has ventured to deny it. She attempted to escape at night, and
was fired at and compelled to return. Two nights after, she was
discovered going out, its. was supposed, without previous knowledg

Page 154

154	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

of the forts. The Wachusett got underway and followed her, as she
supposed, but at daylight the next morning it was found that the Dol-
phin was chasing the Wachusett, the night being~lark, instead of the
II achusett chasing the Dolphin. The former had no idea it. was the
Dolphin until she was captured, and this was effected some 10 or 12
miles from the shores of Puerto Rico, and eiitirely without the~limits
of his Danish Majesty. A part of her crew, some sixteen men, were
taken on board of the Wachusctt, which was obliged again to return to
this port, as her beilers had given out. She has been at anchor since,
undergoing repairs, until a few days ago, when she made another trial
trip and boarded the bark Intrin8ic, which had left your harbor. I
suppose the fact may not then have been known to you. It was all done
in open day and in sight of your port, but as those who are acting as
agents for the blockade runners had no interest in her, it was not of any
consequence in their eyes.
	I have great confidence in making the assertion that no act on the
part of myself or officers in command can, after a full knowledge of the
facts iu each of these cases, be construed so as to show an intention on
our part to interrupt in any way the commerce of this port. It is not
reasonable that we 8hould run the risk of making ourselves unwelcome
visitors, especially in view of the fact that we have always been most
kindly and hospitably received.
	All the reg-alations of your port have been most scrupulouslyobserved,
and no vessels of any description have been either molested or put under
surveillance by my squadron. My orders have been very strict to this
effect, and I have no reason to believe that they have not been obeyed.
	Although x~ell informed of the transactions of the vessels engaged in
the contraband trade and the doings of the Confederate agents in this
port, you are aware that I have never troubled your Excellency with
any complaints, as I did not wish to impede in any way the trade of
this port or to call into question the acts of those who are charged with
enforcing the established rules and regulations. I conceive, however,
that I had a perfect right, and perhaps ought to have called your atten-
tion to the operations of the Confederates or those engaged in contra-
band trade that were passing under the eyes and with the approval or
sanction of the authorities in this place, no notice being taken of them,
although they were highly prejudicial to onr cause and in aid of the
rebellion.
	The assurance that both his ExcellCncy Governor Birche and your-
self have given me that Confederate privateers and pirates would not
be permitted to receive any aid or coal here was sufficient to satisfy me
that these practices were concealed from you at the very time they were
urging complaints against us.
	In conclusion, permit me to renew to you the assurance of my deter-
mination to cultivate and maintain the friendly relations which exist
between his Danish Majestys Government and my own, and to express
to you my appreciation of the courtesy and friendly feeling which have
always been extended to me and my officers by yonrself and the other
Danish authorities.
	I have the honor to be, sir, with great respect, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India squadron.
	His Excellency Lieutenant-Governor ItOTHE,
Of ~t. Thomas

Page 155

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	155

GOVERNMENT ROUSE,
&#38; .	Thomas, ]Iliay 16, 1863.
	SIR:	I am ill receipt of your esteemed letter ~f 13th instant, and
appreciate your acknowledgment of the hospitality tendered to the
United States vessels in this harbor, and your wish in return to make
said vessels welcome guests to this place. 1 have no doubt that any
miscon ceivin gs will easily disappear before such mutual dispositions.
	The contents of said letter and your open statement of the objects for
which the vessels under your command are sent here, together with
your kind assurance of your appreciation of the advantages we are
anxious to ofkr to them for such objects, have been thankfully received
by me as a satisfactory acknowledgment of the right and iuterest of
my Government as stated in my letter to you dated 6th of April last.
	As for the cases of the Peterh~~, Neptune, Dolphin, and Intrinsic
(which last case had come to my knowledge, although I did not make
it subject to any application to you), I was in some })oints under a
(lift erent impression from the one that would result from the explana-
tions you kindly give; still, I can not but acknowledge an(1 record your
assurance that in all those cases you have made it a point not to
infringe on our rights and the interest of this place, which requires
that no persecution of outgoing vessels is immediately commenced
from this harbor by any man-of war.
	I regret your expressions that a contraband trade is carried on at
this place, under the eyes and with the approval and sanction of the
authorities. This is not the case, and I beg to consider those expres-
sions as founded on misconceptions. The existing laws and regiila-
tions which have not adopted any investigation of imports and exports,
are impartially maintained now as before.
Receive my repeated assurance of the high consideration with which
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant,
ROTHE.
	His Honor Admiral WILKES,
Commanding the United States West Inaia Squadron.


Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Mohi can,
of cruise by that vessel in Cape Verde Islands.

U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Porto Praya, Cape Verde [Islands], April 11, 1863.
	SIR:	I have to report to the honorable Secretary of the Navy that
I sailed from this port on the 1st day of April on a short cruise to the
southward of these islands, after which I stood to the northward, touch-
ing at the islands of Brava, Fogo, Saint Vincent, Santa Luzia, Branco,
Raza, Saint Nicholas, and returned to this port on the 10th instant,
without seeing any suspicious vessels. The health of the officers and
crew continues good. In regard to general order relative to correspond-
ence with the Department, I would state that I have no paper on board
of the proper dimensions. As soon as I can obtain some I will comply
with the regulations.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 156

156	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific
Squadron, of the arrival of U. S. S. Narragansett, Commander Slanly,
at Panama, New Granada. with information re~arding fitting out of
privateers.
U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Calico, Peru, April ii, 1863.
SIR:	I have the honor to inform you that the U. S. S. Narragansett,
Commander Stanly, arrived at Panama February 14, after a cruise up
the coast, touching at Punta Arenas, Costa Itica; San Juan, and
IRealejo, Nicaragua; Amapala, Honduras; La Union and Acajutla, I San]
Salvador, and San Jos~, in Guatemala.
	Commander Stanly represents that there does not seem to be any
probability of privateers being fitted out from any of the places lie vis-
ited against our commerce, although he met a number of Americans
who were traitors to their flag, yet claiming the protection of our Gov-
ernment whenever they anticipated difficulties.
	The Narragansett has been ordered to take the place of the Saranac
to cruise between Acapulco and Guaymas, the latter vessel being in
such a state as to make it necessary to send her to San Francisco for
repairs.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully,
CHAS. H. BELL,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander Craven, U~ S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tusca-
rora, of arrival at Philadelphia from the Azores.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP TUSCARORA,

April 13, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that, in obedience to your order of
February 12, I have brought this ship to Philadelphia.
	I left Cadiz on the 17th March and proceeded to Gibraltar to get
the latest intelligence from that place. I went to Madeira and Fayal;;
no privateers had been heard of at either place since the piracies of the
Alabama in September last.
	I sailed from Fayal March 30.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
T.	AUGS. CRAVEN,

Commander..
hlIOfl. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Sanoma~,
of capture by that vessel of schooner Clyde.

U. S. S. SONOMA, CAMPECHE BANKS,
Lat. 21~ 45 N., Long. 870 49 IL, April 14, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to iiiforrn you that I have this day captured~
in latitude and longitude as above, the schooner Clyde, sailing under En

Page 157

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	157

lish colors. The Clydes papers are niainly correct ,but there is strong
presuml)tive evidence that her cargo, consisting of 156 bales of cotton
and 15 barrels of resin, is Confrderate prol)erty. There is proof that
the cotton and resin were taken on board nt Laguna from a Confederate
schooner, and nothing to show that there was any change of i)roperty
there or elsewhere.
	I have also taken in the prize the two persons who brought the ca~go
from Mobile to Laguna, who were ~)ass Ilgers, with the crew of the Con-
federate schooner on board the prize at the time of her capture.
	J send the Clyde to Key West for adjudicatiom with the captain and
crew, iii charge of Actiiw Ensign Charles Norton.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
T.	II. STEVENS,
Commander.
Hon. SECRETARY OF THE NAVY.




Report of Acting Master Williams, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship
mo, of cruise in the vicinity of St. Izielena for the purpose c~f warning
American merchantmen against Confederate cruisers and privateers.

U.	S. SHIP INO,
Brooklyn Navy Yard, N. Y, April 15, 1863.
	SIR: I haw the honor to report the arrival of the U. S. ship mo, under
my command, at the Brooklyn navy yard, N. Y., on the  instant.
	According to instructions from the Navy Department, I sailed from
New York on the 5th November, 1862, and on the second day out
experienced a very heavy gale from the IN. E., carrying away my
foreyard and doing other damages to the ship, which forced me off the
coast and into low latitudes to repair damages.
	I reached the island of St. Helena January 7, 1863, and on my arrival
was notified by his Excellency the governor that in twenty-four hours
after accomplishing my repairs it was necessary for me to leave, in
compliance with the Queens proclamation. 1 then cruised in the
vicinity of the island and the ti ck of homeward-bound American
merchautmen and whalers, notifying all I met of the Alabama and
other Confederate privateers destroying the Federal commerce in the
North Atlantic, and on March 1, 18(53, I started for the United States,
as my provisions were getting short, and reached New York as above
mentioned, having been absent from the United States five months and
ten days, and having sailed during that time 18,000 miles. The great-
est distance sailed in twenty-four hours was 310, and the least distance
for the same time was 13 miles, speaking or communicating by signals
with 132 vessels.
	The health of the crew has been remarkably good during the whole
cruise.
Hoping my proceedings during the cruise may meet your approbation,
I have the honor, sir, to be, your obedient servant,
JA ES IL~1. WILLIAMS,
Acting Master, Commanding U. 8. Ship mo.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy

Page 158

	158	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		                  [Telegram.]


NAVY YARD [MARE ISLAND], 11 a. in., April 15, 1863.
(Received Washingtoi~ p. in., April 17.)
	Steamer Washington, price in coin, $20,000; cost of repairs for two
years, $137,000. Hermaun, price, ~90,000 in coin; cost of repairs for
two years, $50,000. Each can have 10 guns more. Steam vessels aie
wanted to check privateering.
Tuos. 0. SELFRIDGE,
[Commandant.]
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
~Secretary of the Navy.]
[Endorsement.]


	You are authorized, if in your own judgment there is an emergency
which demands it, to charter one or more steamers and arm them,
the owners of said steamers to run them and keep them in perfect
order for sea; Government to furnish only the armament, coal, and
fighting crew, with appropriate officers.
[G. Y. Fox.]



Letter from the U. S. consul at Matamoras, Mexico, to the Secretary of
State, regarding Confederate privateers in that vicinity.

U.	S. CONSULATE,
]Jliatamoras, April 15, 1863.
	SIR:	The port of Brazos Santiago has been made a rendezvous for the
Texas navy, and one privateer, schooner rigged, sailed from that port
on the 13th.
	Having heard that Admiral Farragut was at Galveston, I addressed
a letter to him under date of March 13 ultimo, but I have since learned
that he had gone up the Mississippi, consequently my letter did not
reach him, and on the 15th of the same month I wrote to Colonel
[E. J.] Davis, who was at the mouth of the river with the unarmed
steamer Honduras, to send her off after somethi iig that could destroy
these privateers, and, not succeeding, I at last wrote to the collector of
New Orleans, reqnesting him to represent. the matter in such a light
that Eomething might be done. Nothing of a fighting character has as
yet appeared, and the rebels are busily at work fitting up two more
schooners.
	Their intention is, probably, to wait outside and intercept the Amen-
can vessels that leave this port, of which there are now 13 here.
	It is miow impossible for an American vessel to get any freight here,
and many of them are being sold.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your most obedient servant,
L.	PIERCE, Jr.,
U.	S. Consul.
The SECRETARY OF STATE,
Washington, D. C

Page 159

160
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding Wesi
India Squadron, deploring the insuffi ci ent force ~sder his command for
the capture of C. S. steamers Alabama and Florida (Oreto).

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
Off Eleuthera, one of the Bahama Islands, April 16, 1863.
	Sin: I have to advise you of my having left Havana on the ittli
instant, up to which time I had no advices of the Juniata or any other
vessel to join me. I regretted this extremely, as 41 was in hopes to
have my squadron so increased as to have had a.force off all the British
l)orts in these seas to have rendered it impossible for the Alabama or
Oreto to have entered for coal at the expiration of the ninety days,
now approaching, the limits of her Britannic Majestys proclamation,
since they last coaled. The time of the Alabama ends on the 26th April,
and that of the Florida on the 28th May.
	Yesterday I communicated with our consul, Mr. Hawley, at Nassau,.
a great improvement on his predecessor, who was entirly unfit for his
situation, and bronght disgrace on our country by his habits and con-
dnct. With the present incumbent I ama favorably impressed, and have
arranged with him to have a communication kept up with the squad-
ron, from which we have been for some time debarred, as I found the
former could not be trusted. We anchored at sunset and remained at
anchor outside about three hours. Captain Baldwin was served with
a copy of the Queens proclamation, but the officer who brought it
stated he was directed to say from the governor, although we had
anchored without permission, that the hospitalities of the port would
be extended to ns. I think they have changed their tune not a little
toward us. I had no communication with the authorities.
	Had I been joined by the Juniata, I should have dispatched two ves-
sels to Bermuda to look after the Alabama, bnt I find it will be iml)os-
sible to do so and have the ports and cays here closely watched, which
is necessary at this time. The Oreto had but 95 tons of coal on board
when she left Barbados, and that of the Alabama must by this time
be nearly exhausted, and they must resort to some port, and most likely
a British one, for that purpose, where. they are sure to meet sympa-
thizers and supply their wants. I am satisfied, had I had the aid of
this steamer in December last, with two others, I should have gratified
the Department and the country by tl~e capture of the Alabama under
the system I have adopted.
	The capture of the ~9ertrude this morning fully proves what I have
repeatedly urged upon the Department, to have efficient vessels on this
service, with the highest obtainable speed. Had it been one of the
gunboats or other vessels of the squadron she would have escaped and
reached the land before overhauled.
	I have every confidence that as long as the Florida and Alabama are
n existence that no more effectual plan can be adopted for their cap-
ture than that pursued by me, and regret I have not sufficient force to
carry it fully into effect. What I can do will be done. I would suggest
that the Department dispatch, as speedily as possible, two fast steamers
to Bermuda to await the advent of the Alabama. We shall keep a
strict lookout for her in these waters, as far as mny force will permit.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy

Page 160

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	161

Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of a steamer being fitted out at Nassau, New Providence,
as a privateer for the Confederates.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
Off Eleuthera, one of the Bahama Islands, April 16, 1863.
	SIR:	I have information which I received at Havana from a reliable
source that a steamer is being fitted out at Nassau as a privateer for
the Confederates, and Mr. Hawley, our consul, confirms it. She is
to be seen lying withont the port, but within the adjoining keys, some
3 or 4 miles distant from the towim of Nassau; is undergoing repairs and
fitting for armament. It is understood at Nassau that she is waiting
for a commission and officers. Mr. hawley has been too recently here
to ascertain fully about her, but I feel satisfied that time moment Charles-
ton is taken and the blockade runners stopped great efforts will be made
to procure privateer commissions for the fast steamers that are here.
	My small force will not permit me to keep up such a watch as will
enable me to prevent their exit. Would it not be well to call the atten-
tiomi of Lord Lyons to these doings under the eye of the authorities
here ~
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding IVest India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEoN WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Report ~f Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. ]Iliohican, of
arrival at Cape Verde Islands, keeping a vigilant lookout for piratical
vessels.
U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Porto Grande, Cape Verde [Islandsl, April 17, 1863.
	SIR:	I have to report to the honorable Secretary of the Navy the
arrival of the U. S. S. Miohican at this port. I found here the Ameri-
can steamer Che. Kiang, bound to China. By her I received your letter
of 27th March, with duplicate letters dated 21st and 24th January;
also Navy Registers for 1863, annual reports of the Department, with
various general orders, etc. We have no late news of the piratical
vessels.
	The last accounts we have they were in the West Indies. They do
not seem disposed to come this way. We are keeping a good lookout
for them. Our ship continues very healthy.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. GLISSoN,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Sonoma,
of cruise from April 7 to 20, 1863.
U.	S. S. SONOiVIA,
Off Cape ~icholemo [St. iYicolas Mole? j April20,1863~
	SIR:	ln obedience to your instructions of the 7th of this month, I
have visited Alacran Reef, where I arrived on the afternoon of the 13th,
	N W RVOL II	1

Page 161

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	161


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. &#38; Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of a steamer being fitted out at Nassau, New Providence,
as a privateer for the Confederates.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
Off Eleuthera, one of the Bahama Islands, April 16, 1863.
	SIR:	II have information which I received at Havana from a reliable
source that a steamer is being fitted out at Nassau as a privateer for
the Confederates, and Mr. Hawley, our consul, confirms it. She is
to be seen lying without the port, but withiii the adjoining keys, some
3 or 4 miles distant from the town of Nassau; is undergoing repairs and
fitting for armament. It is understood at Nassau that she is waiting
for a commission and officers. Mr. hawley has been too recently here
to ascertain fully about her, but I feel satisfied that the moment Charles-
ton is taken avid the blockade runners stopped great efforts will be made
to procure privateer commissions for the fast steamers that are here.
	My small force will riot permit me to keep up such a watch as will
enable me to prevent their exit. Would it not be well to call the atten-
tion of Lord Lyons to these doings under the eye of the authorities
here~
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. ]Iifohican, of
arrival at Cape Verde Islands, keeping a vigilant lookout for piraticat
vessels.
U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Porto Grande, Cape Verde [Islandsl, April 17, 1863.
	SIR:	I have to report to the honorable Secretary of the Navy the
arrival of the U. S. S. Miohican at this port. I found here the Ameri-
can steamer Che. Kiang, bound to China. By her I received your letter
of 27th March, with duplicate letters dated 21st and 24th January;
also Navy Registers for 1863, annual reports of the l)epartmeut, with
various general orders, etc. We have no late news of the piratical
vessels.
	The last accounts we have they were in the West Indies. They do
not seem disposed to come this way. We are keeping a good lookout
for them. Our ship continues very healthy.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Sonoma,
of cruise from April 7 to 20, 1863.
U.	S. S. SONOMA,
Off Cape Nicholemo [St. Nicolas Mole ?i April 20, 1863.
SIR:	in obedience to your instructions of the 7th of this month, I
have visited Alacran Reef, where I arrived on the afternoon of the 13th,
	N W RVOL II	1

Page 162

162	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.


and found nothing to excite suspicion. The aiichorage is a good and
safe one and very accessible. The channel through the reef is well
defined, as are all the dangers. For a vessel dra~ng 18 feet there is no
trouble in entering.
	On Perez Island there are some fishermens huts, three of the inhab-
itants of which I met and from them learned that no vessels, Confed-
erate or otherwise, resorted there; indeed, as the small cays furnish
neither wood nor water, the anchorage has no value saving as a
shelter.
	On Tuesday the 14th, while on my way to Mugeres Island from Alacran,
the Sonoma captured a vessel loaded with cotton and resimi, having on
board 156 bales of the former and 16 barrels of the latter. The Clyde
(the name of the vessel) was under English colors, and was bound from
Laguna to havana. Her papers were generally correct, but, as the
cargo came out of a Confederate vessel to the Clyde, and as she
had the officers and crew of the Confederate on board, with nothing to
show a transfer of property, I took possessiomi of the vessel and cargo
and sent them into Key West for adjudication in charge of Acting
Ensign Charles Norton. The officers and crew of the Confederate
schooner are on board the Sonoma.
	I looked in at Mugeres Island, as directed, and through the Ameri-
can steamer Hero, which I boarded just outside the harbor the evening
Iwas offthere,learned there was nothing occurring or had occurred
there recently.
	I stopped also at Grand Cayman, where I had an interview with our
consul, whoa had nothing to communicate. His impressions were that
when the Agrippina left Grand Cayman, just before our arrival at that
place in December, she rendezvoused at Swan Island, where she coaled
the Alabama; but this hardly corresponds with Captain Blakes state-
ment as to the locality where the Alabama about that time coaled.
	I deem it my duty to bring to your attention the crippled condition
of this vessel, the cylinder and boilers of which are in such a condition
as to be entirely unreliable. The injury to both is rapidly increasing
by use, and besides the increase of fuel, owing to these causes, which
is double in quantity, there is so great a loss of power as to make it
impossible to get any speed out of the vessel, and as a chaser she is
good for nothing. We were, fortunately, favored with remarkable
weather, which enabled us to reach this rendezvous on the day
appointed. We were obliged to stop twice to plug tubes, the boilers
leaking badly and almost extinguishing the firesonce on Camnpeche
Bank, under C ape Catoche, and at Grand Cayman. I enclose Mr.
lithoadess report upon the subject.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
T.	II. STEVENS,
Commander.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding West lindia Squadron.


Report of Commander Collins, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Octo-
rara, of the seizure by that vessel of the English schooner W. Y. Leitch.

U.	S. S. OCTORARA,
At Sea, April 20, 1863.
	Sin: I have the honor to report that we, this day, at 3 p. in., in lati-
tude about 26~ 07 N., longitude about 760 19 W., seized the Englis

Page 163

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	163

schooner W. Y. Leitch, of and from Nassau, New Providence, with a
cargo of 250 sacks salt (though her clearance gives her only 200), bound
to St. John, New Brunswick.
	In her certificate of British registry she is described as 60 feet long,
18~ feet wide, and ~ feet depth of hold; total tonnage, 35. She was
formerly the Charleston pilot boat No. 2. She is owned by A. J.
Adderly, merchant, of Nassau. I send her to Key West in charge of
Acting Ensign J. H. Wiley for adjudication.
	The excessive rate of wages$60 per month being paid for the mate
and $40 for seamenher cargo, pretended destination, articles found
among the private effects of the crew, and the length of time between
clearing and departure from Nassau, all give evidence of her intention
to violate the blockade.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
N.	COLLINS,
Commander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Letter from Hon. C. Vanderbilt to the Secretary of the Navy, suggesting
plans to insure better safeguard for ~he Panama mail steamers.

No. 5 BOWLING GREEN,
New York, April 21, 1863.
	IDEAR SIR: After consulting with the captains of the steamers
employed between this port and Aspinwall, I have come to the conclu-
sion that if it meets with the views of the Department the following
arrangement will insure a better safeguard for those steamers and add
no more expense to the Department, viz:
	To convoy the ships through the Mariguana Passage to Navassa
Island, which is about 250 miles distance. This would enable the con-
voy ships to cruise 100 or 200 miles north of Mariguana Island at inter-
mediate times, which would give them a good opportunity to pick up
some of those blockade runners, and if the Department should see proper
to allow the man-of-war to make her appearance at Aspinwall once
in six or eight weeks it might have a good effect as a terror to the
privateers.
	The ships will leave New York on the 1st, 11th, and 21st of each
month, at noon, except when those dates fall on Sunday, when the day
of departure will be the Monday following. They arrive at Marignana
Island in the morning of the fifth day after departure.
	If the Department should think well of this, by giving me the infor-
ination I will direct the ships to proceed that way. On their returning
from Aspinwall they will come by Cape San] Antonio, west end of
Cuba,wherelthinkthereisbutlittledanger.
Very respectfully, yours,
D.	B. ALLEN,
For C. VANDERBILT.

Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy,, Wtshington

Page 164

164	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Commander Collins, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Octo-
rara, of the seizure by that vessel of the English schooner flandy.

U.	S. S. OCTORARA,
At Sea, April 22, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that we, this day, at 9 a. in., iii latitude
about 260 45 N., longitude about 76~ 37W., seized the English schooner
Handy, of 18~%~ tons burden, of and from Nassau, New Providence,
bound to Bermuda, with a cargo of 102 sacks salt and 40 kegs bicar-
bonate soda. At the time of her capture there was iieither land nor
any United States vessels in sight. I send her to Key West in charge
of Acting Ensign George F. ilollis for adjudication.
	Her cargo, pretended destination, size, articles of merchandise found
among the private effects of the crew, and the captains letter of credit
found ou board (a copy of which is enclosed), are some of the evidences
of her intention to run the blockade.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
N.	COLLINs,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
	Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Sq~dron,to Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding U.
S. S. Sonoma, to proceed to Santiago de Cuba for coal.

U. S. S. VANDERBILT,
[St.] Nicolas Mole, April 22, 1863.
	SIR:	We leave here this night for Santiago de Cuba. You will hold
on here for three days, at the end of which time you will proceed to
Santiago de Cuba and coal, returning here as soon as you have effected
that operation, to await my retnrn or orders, keeping a lookout between
this and Cape Maysi, and visit Cape Haitien on this island, some 60
miles to the eastward of this, on the north coast. At either this or that
place I will probably join you in one of the vessels of the squadron iii
some ten days time. Should we not return here immediately, you will
know that I have gone on duty else ~vhere and time did not permit my
return.
	After you have coaled you will be as sparing as possible of its con-
sumption.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[CHARLES WILKES,
	[Acting Rear-Admiral,] Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander T. II. STEVENS,
Commanding Sonoma.


Report of Commander Clary, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tioga,
of the capture by that vessel of English sloop Justina.

U.	S. GUNBOAT TIO~A,
At Sea, Lat. 280 12 N., Long. 78~ 34 W., April 23, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report the capture of the British registered
sloop Justina, of Nassau, New Providence, Bahamas, of 4 tons, Steven

Page 165

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	165

son, master, from Indian River, Florida, with 8 bales of cotton for
Nassau. Her only papers are the register and a bill of lading for the
cotton, given at Indian River March 31. No flag, h~r captain admitting
he threw overboard an English and a rebel flag during chase.
	We fell in with her near the above latitude and loiigitnde this morn-
ing. She was leaking badly when we first boarded her, and on towing
her (4 knots) found the water gained on us so rapidly was compelled
to remove the cotton and destroy her, more at the solicitation of her
former captain, he giving me a signed paper to that effect; and to insure
his sincerity, gave up the above bill of lading to guarantee her
condemnation, etc. I shall forward the papers, with the cotton, to
whatever port I may be able to ship it for.
	I fell in with the U. S. gunboats Santiago de Cuba and Rhode Island
during the last night, bound to Key West for coal; they had seen
nothing and no news.
	I regret to report the loss of our signal book. The imiasters mate,
A.	II. Mamidell, who had it in charge, gave it to one of the boats crew
to pass up the side of the Rhode Island; in so doing it slipped out of
the bag and fell overboard (no doubt of its loss), all owing to the want
of proper precaution on the part of the masters mate.
I shall apply to the proper bureau for another, stating the partieniars.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
A. G. CLARY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Acting Rear.Admiral CHAS. WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron.



Order from the commandant, navy yard, Mare Island, Cal., to Lieuten-
ant- Commander Hopkins, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Saginaw,
te proceed to Vancouver Island, British Columbia, to restrict equipment
of Confederate privateers in that vicinity.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE,
Navy Yard, Mare Island, Cal., April 23, 1863.
	SIR: You will proceed in the Saginaw, wiThout any unnecessary
delay, to ports Angeles and Townsend, in Washingtomm Territory, to
Victoria, in the British Possessions, oft Vancouver island, and to such
other places in that vicinity as may be necessary for time purpose of
obtaining information from the authorities, and from other sources, in
relation to the equipment of rebel privateers in those waters.
	Intelligence has reached me that efforts are making at Victoria to fit
out steamers and other vessels to depredate upon our commnemce in the
Pacific, and that meetings have been held in that place for the object
of raising means to carry out this infamous project.
	If you fiimd, after a sufficient time has elapsed, that no good reason
exists for these apprehensions, and that there are no vessels there or
at the adjacent ports fitting out or suitable to be fitted out as privateers,
or none likely to arrive soon for this purpose, you will, after coaling at
Bellingham Bay, return to this place.
	On the other hand, should these rumors be confirmed by observation
and intelligence from authentic sources, you will remain and take such
action in the premises as tnay prevent the escape of any vessel intended
for a so-called Confederate privateer, or lead to her capture outside of
British waters. In the execution of this duty due care must be taken
not to infringe the neutrality laws

Page 166

166	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION

	Be pleased to report your arrival at Puget Sound, how your vessel
behaves, and your proceedings from time to time, together with all the
knowledge you can derive on the subject of your visit.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
THOS. 0. SELPRIDGE,
Commandant.
	Lieutenant-Commander W. E. HOPKINS,
Commanding U. S. S. Saginaw, San Francisco, Cal.



[Telegram.]


FLAGSHIP MINNESOTA, Off Newport News, 5 p. m.
(IReceived Norfolk, April 24, 1863.)
	The Department by telegraph directs that you proceed to havana
with the Juniata, in pursuance of previous orders.
S. P. LEE,
Acting Rear-Admiral.
	Commander J. M. B. GLITZ, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Juniata.



Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Ransom, U. S. Navy,
command~ing U. S. S. ]Iifercedita, to report to Acting Rear-Admiral
Wilkes, U. S. Navy, for dnty in convoying California mail steamers.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, April 25, 1863.
	SIR: The U. S. S. Mercedita is to be attached to the West India
Squadron, at present cominmanded by Acting Rear-Admiral Charles
Wilkes, and her immediate service will be to relieve the U. S. S. Con-
necticut and convoy the California steamers over a part of their route
from New York to Aspinwall. As soon, tLierefore, as she receives her
new crew and is otherwise ready, you will proceed with her on this
service.
	The California steamers leave New York on the 1st, 11th, and 21st of
each month, at noon, except when those days fall on Sunday, in which
case the day of departure will be the following Monday. Their route
will be through the Mariguana Passage, and they arrive at Mariguana
on the morning of the fifth day after their departure from New York.
You will meet them at this island and convoy them through the pas-
sage and as far as Navassa Island. At intermediate times you can
cruise in the vicinity of the route for the protection of our commerce
and the interception of vessels engaged in carrying contraband of war
or violating the blockade, taking care always to be at tile proper point
in due season to convoy the steamers.
	A coal station has been established at Cape ilaitien Harbor, from
which your supplies of fuel can be drawn.
	Avail yourself of the earliest opportunity to report, by letter, to
Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes after arriving on the station, and send
him a copy of these instructions.
	The steamers returiling from Aspinwall will come by Cape [San]
Antonio, west end of Cuba, where, it is thought, little danger is zto be
apprehended

Page 167

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	167

	Inform the Department a few days in advance of the proposed day
of your departure, so that it may advise the agent of the steamers.
	Transmitted herewith are copies of recent ge~eral orders of the
Department.
Ii	am, respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy.
	Commander GEo. M. 1{ANSoM,
Commanding U. S. S. ]Jlereedita, Boston.



Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Commander Wyman, U. S. Navy, to proceed to Key
West, Fla., for the command of liT, S. S. Santiago de Cuba.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
At Sea, April 25, 1863.
	SIR: You will take passage iu the Sonoma, which vessel will, after
coaling, proceed to Key West, where you will find the Santia9o do Cuba,
Captain Bidgely, whom you will relieve of his command, agreeable to
orders from the honorable Secretary of the Navy. The Santiago do
Cuba, according to the last advices from Captain J~idgely, has pro.
ceeded to Key West, with the Rhode Island in company, to coal. I
make no doubt that Captain itidgely has had good reasons for actiig
as he has, l~it it has greatly deranged my l)lans and will leave this
Windward Passage for a short time unoccupied, which was not my
intention. I felt confident he would have returned here, after visiting
the islands to the northward, to have met me, an(l should have coaled
again at Santiago de Cuba, in which case you woni(l have relieved him
at that point. I send orders to Commander Trenchard for your cruis-
ing after you shall have taken command.
	On taking command of the Santiago do Cuba, Captain Itidgely will
turn over to you all his instructions and orders issued to him amid the
squadron.
	I need not say to you that your detention at Key West must be lim-
ited to the shortest possible time.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[CHARLEs WILKES, 1
[Acting Rear-Admiral,] Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander It. II. WYMAN, U. S. Navy.



Instructions of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding
West India Squadron; to Commander Trenchard, U. S. Navy, com-
manding U. S. S. Rhode Island, relative to cruising in search of C. S.
S. Alabama.
FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
At Sea, April 25, 1863.
	SIR:	You will coal and make such repairs as may be necessary, fill
up with provisions and small stores avid clothing for six months, and
return to St. Nicolas Mole b~y the way of the North West New Providence
Channel, stopping at Nassau, communicating there with Mr. Hawley

Page 168

t68	OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSUNION.

to whom I have directed the accompanying dispatches, a duplicate of
which I have forwarded oy the way of Havana. After visiting Nassau
you will touch at Fortune JsIa~d, looking in at th~ other islands iii the
vicinity, and repair to Cape Haitien, where you will find the National
Guard lying. You will fill np with coal from her, and then proceed off
the island of Jamaica. I desire that a strict watch should be kept
about this island, as I have no doubt it may be one of the stations to
which the Alabama may resort to coal, since the ninety days allotted
by her Britannic Majesty have expired. His favored reception there
and the aid given him is most likely to cause him to return.
	The Santiago de Cuba will cruise as she has been doing, in company
with the Rhode Island for the present.
	If the Rhode Island should be ready first, Wilson, the pilot now on
board the Santiago de Cuba, should be transferred to her, and she will
make the cruise designated above, when the Santiago de Cuba (or 1?hode
Island, if detained) will pass up the Old Bahama Channel to join at
Cape ilaitien (or [St.] Nicolas Mole) to fill up with coal. After coaling
at Key West, one of the vessels will touch at The llavannah to procure
dispatches and letters for nYe and the squadron, or any packages or
boxes which may be there. They will be left on board the National
Guard at Cape Haitien. It is to be understood that should you get
reliable information relative to the Alabama, and find it impossible to
leave the locality, you will at once send a small vessel and dispatches
to Cape ilaitien with news for me. Cape llaitieii may be considered
our headquarters for the present, where the National Guard will be
stationed, where you will find orders in case I should touch there, and
leave your reports of proceedings, etc.
lam, most respectfully, your obedient servant,
[CHARLES WiLKES,]

	[Acting Rear-Admiral, J Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander S. D. TRENCHARD, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Steamer Rhode Island.


Instructions of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding
West India Squadro~,to Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. S. Sonoma, relative to transfer of command.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
At Sea, April 25, 1863.
	SIR:	Commander Wyman is directed to take passage with you to
Key West, where you will proceed, after coaling at Santiago de Cuba,
by the south side of the island of Cuba, touching in at Cienfuegos.
	On reaching Key West, should you hear of the arrival of your relief;
you will at once transfer the command of the Sonoma over to him. You
will keep the Sonoma in as good condition as possible, arid after coal-
Ping and making such repairs as you may (leemn necessary, proceed to
The Havannah or Matauzas, and communicate with our acting consul-
general, Thomas Savage, who will inform you of any rebel vessels that
may be about to sail from The llavannah, or any news in relation to
them, on which you will act to the best of your judgment. In case of
your being relieved or finding a relief waiting for you, ordered by the
Department at Key West or Havana, you will consider yourself at
liberty to transfer your command over to him. This is done to prevent
any delay to you in case of your orders being enclosed to me

Page 169

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	169

	You will report to me by the first opportunity, sending it to the
consul-general at Havana to be forwarded here.
	The instructions given to you heretofore will be ~he guide for your
cruising in the neighborhood and off The llavannah, which will be
turned over to your successor to guide him prior to receiving further
orders from me.
	Should the steamer from The Havannah arrive before your departure
from Santiago de Cuba, and have a package directed to me, you will
open it and take out auy letters that may be for yourself; Commander
Wyman, or ycur officers and mcii. Envelope the balance and direct
them to be put on board the same steamer, if she is bound to St.
Thomas, with the understanding that they will be delivered to any of
our cruisers that may fall in with her.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[CHARLES WILKES,]
	[Acting Rear-Admiral,] Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander T. H. STEVENS,
Commanding Steamer Sonoma.


Report of the commandant navy yard, Mare L~land, Cal., regarding meas-
ures for the defense of San Francisco.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE,
Navy Yard, Mare Island, Cal., April 25, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your telegram
of the 21st instant authorizing me to charter steamers for the use of the
Government should any emergency require it.
	The mercantile community of San Francisco have expressed much
anxiety in regard to the disturbance of the commerce on this coast by
rebel steamers, and in consequence of this expression I was induced to
say in my telegram of April 15 that more steamers were required to
check privateering.
	If there could be a larger naval force of steamers in these waters it
is very probable that it would deter, at least, the equipinentof l)rivateers.
	The Cyane has come to the yard for repairs, and the Saranac is lying
at San Francisco for the same object.
	In the present posture of affairs I do not, however, think it wise or
prudent to have both here under repah~s at the same time while we have
no vessels to take their places, and in accordance I shall direct the
Saranac to remain at San Francisco until I can hear from Acting Rear-
Admiral Bell on the subject.
II remain, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ThoS. 0. SELFRIDGE,

Commandant.
Hon. CIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washiugton, 1). C.


egarding the
Report of the commandant navy yard, Mare Island Cal r
equipment of (J~n fcderate privateers.
COMMANDANTS OFFICE,
Navy Yard, Mare island, Cal., April 25, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that the Saginaw has been dispatched
to Puget Soumid, the collector of the port of San Francisco havin

Page 170

170	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

informed me that he had advices from the U. S. consul at Victoria in
relation to proceedings there by persons hostile to the U, S. Govern-
ment to raise the means for fitting out privateem-~ under the so-called
Confederate flag to prey upon our commerce in these seas.
	Herewith enclosed I transmit a copy of my instructions to the com-
mander of the Saginaw.*
I remain, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
THos. 0. SELFRIDO-E,
Commandant.
	lion. GIDEON WELLES,

&#38; cretary of the Navy, Washington, D. 6.



Report of Commander MeDongal, U. S. Navy, commanding U. AS. AS.
Wyoming, of intended departure for Japan for the protection of
American interests there.

U.	S. S. WYOMING,
Lymoon Pass, near llongkong, April 27, 18G3.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of duplicate and
triplicate orders of the 26th January, through the house of A. Lowe &#38; 
CO., to proceed to the Strait of Sunda.
	In my dispatch of the 8th instant, I reported the extent of injuries
sustained in the harbor of Swatow. On the 22d the repairs were coin-
pleted and the ship put afloat. Getting on board our coal and ammu-
nition, I left Amoy on the evening of the 24th and arrived at this
anchorage yesterday, to fill up with coal and l)rovisions and proceed
south, in obedience to your orders of the 26th January. To day I
received the enclosed copies of letters from General Pruyii, our min-
ister in Japan, marked A and B, also C, fi-om our consul at Nagasaki,
requesting the presence of this ship during the troubles pending
between Japan and England.
	Your order of the 26th January to proceed to the Strait of Sunda
and to be governed in my stay there by circumstances was based on
the supposition that the Alabama would make her way to China, as
nothing had been heard of her since the 7th December up to .January
26, the date of your order.
	By the New York Herald of the 25th February it is stated that the
brig Golden Rule was captured by the Alabama on the 26th January
and the brig Chastelain on the 27th, off the island of San Domingo. I
therefore conclude she has not sailed for the East.
	In consideration of the urgent appeal of General Prayn I feel it my
duty for the present to proceed immediately to Japan to give such
l)rotection as in my power to our countrymen there during the pending
difficulties, after which proceed south.
	I trust my course may meet your approbation.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
D.	MCDOUGAL,
Commander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, 1). C.

*See p. 165

Page 171

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	171

Report of Commander Cooper, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. ~iJon-
necticut, of continuance of duty as convoy to mail steamers.

U. S. S. CONNECTICUT,
Bay of Aspinwall, April 27, 1863.
	SIR: I respectfully report that we continue to act as convoy to the
mail steamers.
	The ship is losing her copper fast on both sides. Below the water
line it is broken and rolled up from stem to stern, which affects her
speed and increases the consumption of coal. My object in presenting
these facts is to prevent the sea worm, which is very destructive in this
sea, especially in the bay of Aspinwall, from getting into the planking.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
G.	II. COOPER,
Commanding U. S. S. Connecticut.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific
Squadron, of intended departure from Cailao, Peru, for San Fran-
cisco, Cal.
U.	S. FLAG-SHIP LANCASTER,
Bay of Callao, April 27, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform the Department that if iiothimg pre-
vents I shall leave this place for Panama soon after the arrival of our
mail by the steamer expected on the 3d May. On our way np I shall
probably touch at Payta for a day or two only.
	Ui~less directed otherwise by the Department, I shall leave Panama,
soon after the arrival of the mail on June 10, for Acapulco and the
Mexican coast in the vicinity, and from thence proceed to San Fran-
cisco. I am anxious to get there, as soon as other duties will permit,
to hasten the repairs of the Saranac and Cyane, and to afford protec.
tion to the city and its vicinity until other means are provided.
	Should the Department have any particular instructions for me I
will receive them before leaving Panama if sent by the steamer which
leaves New York for Aspinwall on June 1.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully,
GRAS. II. BELL,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Letter from the governor of Massachusetts to the President of the United
States requesting the presence of an ironclad vessel of war for the pro-
tection of the Massachusetts harbors.

COMMONwEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS,
Executive Department, Boston, April 27, 1863.
	SIR:	I beg to request you to consider the importance of detailing
immediately an ironclad vessel of war for the exclusive duty of protect-
ing the halbors of the Massachusetts coast, and particularly the harbor
of Boston

Page 172

172	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	Within cannon shot of the statehouse in Boston a population [of] more
than 500,000 in number resides and an amount of private property is
situated assessed at a value of more than $500,0~0,000; and within the
same distance are included the Federal custom-house and subtreasnry,
the navy yard at Charlestown, the Federal arsenal at Watertown, the
State arsenal at Cambridge, two important gnu foundries, one of them
among the largest in the country; several iron-plate rolling mills, amid
shipyards in which, besides numerous wooden vessels of war, no less
than six ironclad vessels are being built for the Navy Department.
Nevertheless, the fortifications which guard this vast aggregate of social,
commercial, political, and military interests ame provided with less than
one-fifth of the ordnance for which they are designed. In the principal
workFort Warren, on Georges Islandthere is not a single gun of
more than 8 inches caliber, and even the few which are there mounted
of that caliber are, together with their carriages, mostly of old and
~baudoned patterns.
	Not a single Federal vessel of war cruises in Massachusetts Bay for
the protection of its coast and commerce, nor has the Federal com-
mander at Fort Warren any authority to detain and examine suspicious
vessels or any steamer or cutter with which to execute such authority
if it should be conferred on him; and the same want of protection is
true of the southern Massachusetts coast, where through the Yineyard
Sound 90,000 vessels have been counted as passing Gay Head light in
the course of twelve months.
	In event of foreign war the harbor of Boston can be well defended
against the concerted attack of a foreign fleet, for its narrow channels
can readily~ be obstructed so as to detain the vessels of the enemy
under the fire of the forts, but at present, with those channels open to
the commerce of the world, a daring commander of a single swift iron-
clad steamer, like the Alabama, can undertake, with fair l)rospect of sue-
cess, to suddenly run past the forts and appear before the city.
	Lieutenant-Colonel Alexander, of the Corps of Engimicers, states to me
that he commsiders the present strength of the fortifications and their
armament of New York Harbor to be relatively live timnes greater
than those of Boston Harbor. With our forts, therefore, so inadequately
armed, the only efficient protection Boston Harbor can have against
the possible incursion of a single swift rebel steamer is by stationing
here a Federal ironclad vessel which would be able to attack and sink
such a rebel steamer when it should have entered the port. If I had
not been interrupted last year by the Navy Department in prel)ara-
tions which I had made to build an ironclad war steamer, the State of
Massachusetts would now have such a vessel in her own possession.
The plans for it had been made, and parties stooa ready to contract for
its construction, when a protest against mny proceeding with the work
was received from the Navy Department, and I abandoned it in defer-
ence to that protest.
	I feel, therefore that I may urge the request for a Federal ironclad
vessel to be stationed here immediately, with additional force, for that
reason; and I most respectfully but firmly urge it upon your attention
as a matter of right that such a vessel may be at once assigned to this
duty. If it is a question of pecuniary consideration to the Federal
Government, I am ready and hereby offer to buy such a vessel from
the United States and to pay for it immediately in cash.
	The anxiety of this whole community for protection from sudden incur-
sin by sea, the vast material interests at stake, and my own conscious

Page 173

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	173


ness of the reasonable character of my request, unite to induce me to
ask an early reply to this communication.
	I have the honor to be, sir, with the highest respect, your obedient
servant,
JOHN A. ANDREW,
Governor of Massachusetts.
The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.




[Telegram.]

NAVY YARD, MARE ISLAND, April 28, 1863.
(Received Washington 12:28 a. in., April 29.)
	I have sent the Saginaw to Puget Sound on important service. The
(Jyane is here, and the Saranac at San Francisco, for repairs.
THOS. 0. SELFEIDGE,

Commandant.]
Hon. G. WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]



Letter from the governor of Massachusetts to the Secretary of the Navy
urging the presence of an ironclad vessel of war for the protection of
Massachusetts harbors.

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS,
Executive Department, Boston, April 28, 1863.
	SIR: I respectfully urge on yeur attention the subject of a letter yes-
terday* addressed by me to the President of the United States, of which
a copy is herewith enclosed. I presume that the matter will, in its
ordinary course, be first referred to your Departmeiit by the President;
aild yet I trust it will not be deemed either by tile President or by
yourself, improper on my l)art, if I veiltured directly to communicate to
your Department the views and wishes entertained upon a subject so
vital to our interests and even our actual safety. Finding the execu-
tive department of this Commonwealth. charged by the legislature with
the duty of doing its utmost for our coast defenses, with $1,000,000
appropriated subject to our own discretion in tile manner of its use, I
am, after many days of careful exploration, compelled to the conclusion
that the only act possible of immediate utility and likely to inipart early
relief to the public mind is to procure the assignment of an ironclad
steam vessel, with its complete armament rea(ly for any service, to the
separate defense of our principal harbor.
	I am prepared to cooperate most heartily with the Government of the
IJnited States in any measures it may deeiu most advisable for the
common good. In that spirit we ceased operations last winter a year
ago, when we had determined to build an armed vessel or the monitor
class for the defense of Massachusetts. And I trust, especially when,
in the judgment of those well able to form a just opinion, the harbor of
Boston is not more than one-fifth as well defended as the harbor of ~ew
York, the memorial I have had the honor to make to the Government
of the United States in this behalf will not fail to receive an early and
affirmative answer.

~Scep. 171

Page 174

174	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I do not forget the necessity of resorting to temporary harbor
obstructions, but with the present inadequate armament of our forti-
fications and the slow progress with which he~vy ordnance will be
furnished for a long time to come, it seems to me that the resort
becomes one of absolute necessity to the additional defensive agency
of an iron armored and turreted vessel of war. I know that objec-
tions may be urged to the efficiency of such a vessel used for such a
purpose, and yet I consider that our present practical danger comes
only from a few vessels now afloat, and not from a powerful fleet likely
to be concentrated at one point. Therefore, the fortifications of Bos-
ton Harbor, aided by one of the armored monitors, would be able to
cripple any force at present likely to assail us. Investigations are on
foot with a view to creating temporary obstructions to intercept the
progress of intruders. Time and skill, however, can remove them.
Thus, then, we must have some active force prepared to make an onset
and to aid the few guns of our forts in punishing the enemy during
the time the obstructions may detain him within reach of their fires.
	I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant,
JOHN A. ANDREW,
[Governor.]
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, etc.



Letter from~ the governor of Massachusetts to Hon. Charles Sumner
requesting authority for the immediate preparation of U. S. ship of
the line Ohio for the protection of the Massachusetts coast.

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSAchUSETTS,
Executive Department, Boston, April 28, 1863.
	Mv DEAR SIR: Since finishing my letter to you, Mr. Lincoln, our
mayor, has called, having visited the navy yard, and brings from Com-
modore Montgomery, who commands at the navy yard, the statement
that if he can be authorized he will immediately prepaje the Ohio with
a full battery and set her to cruising at the mouth of the harbor, and
by that means afford a powerful defensive agent competent to engage
any ordinary enemy. While we awgt the preparation of a vessel of
the monitor class, the presence of such a ship of war in our waters
would allay much apprehension. Captain W. T. Glidden, of Glidden
&#38; Williams, was iu company with the mayor, and [at] the interview
with Commodore Montgomery. He, too, was impressed with the views
of the. commodore, who felt that lie could prepare the Ohio to cope
fearlessly with any ship now afloat nnd~r the Confederate flag.
	I pray you to get full orders and discretionary power to Commodore
Montgomery to further his plan. This can be accomplished with little
delay.
Yours, faithfully,
JOHN A. ANDREW,
Governor.
Hon. CHS. SUMNER,
U.	S. Senate, Washington, D. C.

P.	S,The Ohio or any other vessel shomild be covered by the orders

Page 175

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	175

Report of Commander Glitz, TA S. Nuvy, commanding U. S. S. Juniata,
of the capture by that vessel of Confederate schooner Harvest.

U.	S. STEAM SLO~P JUNIATA,
At Sea, April 30, 1863.
	SIR: I have to inform you that at 9 p. in., when in latitude 280 41
N., longitude 750 42 W., discovered a sail, stoo(1 for and boarded her.
She proved to be the schooner Harvest, of South Edisto (Wilton) [Wills-
town], S. C., without colors and also without papers, six days out,
bound for Nassau, New Providence, loaded with cotton.
	1 then took possession of and sent her to the port of Philadelphia
in charge of Acting Masters Mate Win. A. Ordway and a prize crew
of 5.men, consisting of 1 quarter gunner, 1 seam an, and 3 landsmen.
	I send the muster roll of the ofhcers aiid crew of this vessel by
the prize master of the prize schooner Iiariest.
	At the time of the capture no vessel was iii sight.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
J.	M. B. CLITZ,
Comrn.inder, Commanding U. S. S. Juniata.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander Nichols, U. S. Navy, commandinq U. S. S. Alabama,
of cruise in search of C. S. S. Alabama.

U.	S. S. ALABAMA,
St. Pierre, Martinique, May 1, 1863.
	ADMIRAL: Since my last report to yon from this place, dated 9th
April, I have been to Pointe ~ Pitre, in company with the Oneida, and
filled both vessels with coal, leaving a stock of less than 100 tons in
the hands of the consul. I returned to this port on the 21st ultimo.
Nothing of interest occurred until, on the morning of the 25th ultimo,
the U. S. consul came on board with a negro, who made the following
statement: That on the evening of the 2:3d he saw a strange steamer
anchored in Galion Bay. On the morning of the 24th lie saw her there
still, and she was getting coal from a French schooner. Some one told
him that the steamer was the Ahbama. He came over at once to give
the information, and only arrived thatinorniug. As soon as I could
procure a pilot from the shore I started, with the Oneida in company,
and arrived in Galion Bay in the afternoon, but found nothing there of
a suspicious character. I anchored and sent a boat on shore to make
enquiries and directed Lieutenant-Commander Allen to send a boat to
a French bark in the bay. Whites and blacks on shore concurred in
saying that there had been no steamer in there and they had heard of
none anywhere about. The informatiou from the French bark and a
schooner was to the same effect.
	At 10 p. m. the commissary of Trinit6 came on board to enquire who
we were and what we wanted. He was accompanied by three other
1)ersons, one of whom represented himself as a Government pilot This
person assured me that no steamer had been in Galion Bay, but that he
had heard, just before leaving Trinit6, that there was or had been one in
Robert Bay F Harbor]. In consequence of this report I directed Lieuten-
ant-Commander Allen the next morning to send a boat and examine that
bay. The officer reported that he had done so, had landed an(l ascended
a high hill where he had a view of the whole bay, and questioned some
people he met, who told him that no steamer had been in there. l)u

Page 176

176	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

ing my interview with the commissary he asked if we had any pilot. I
told him I had a man from G-uadelonpe, who acted as coast pilot among
the islands. Tie then asked if I had not a M~tiniqne man on board,
and, npon my reply in the affirmative, requested to see huin. After
examining his papers and qncstioning him, the commissary stated to
me that he regretted very much that his duty compelled him to deprive
me of the mans services by taking him on shore, as he was liable to draft
for the navy, and, having left St. Pierre without permission, must be con-
sidered as a deserter furthermore, that lie had violated law in acting
as a pilot and bringing a foreign vessel into that port, and was also vio-
lating neutrality by serving on board ami American vessel of war. 1
might have refused to deliver the man up, hut being in a port of the
island in which J had hired him, I deemed it best to do so. The com-
missary then said he must take the man from Guadeloupe on the same
grounds, to which I replied that this man was on board by your orders
(I felt sure), with the knowledge of time authorities of Guadeloupe, and
I could not give him up except by your orders or on the (lemnaud of those
authorities. He then made a formal demand for him, to which I
declined acceding. He had, in the course of our interview, offered the
services of the Government pilot to take the simips to sea if I would land
him at Caravelle Point, but I declined doing so, as I might miot go in
that direction.
	I afterwards made a formal request for a pilot to take the ships to sea,
whmch was refused by the commissary oim tbe ground that line had no
authority to do so. On Monday morning, 27th, I went to sea, and stood
to the southward on the outer edge of the reef, examining the coast
carefully, Mt saw nothing except a brig amid one or two smnall droghers
in Fran~ois Bay [Pass]. Arrived off~ this port again in the evening, corn-
municated with the consul, and went to the westward 50 or 60 miles and
passed most of the next day, 28th, in great-gun and small-arm practice.
Returned here on the morning of time 30th, and, learning from the con-
sul that the pilot had been released witlmout punishment, came in and
anchored.
	I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ED. T. NICHOLS,

Commander.
	Acting Rear-Admiral ChARLES WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron.


Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to the governor of Massachusetts,
responding to the suggestions of the latter regarding protection for the
coast of that State.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, May .2, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the 28th ultimo, relative to the coast defenses of Massachusetts and
especially of the harbor of Boston. You also enclose a communication
to the President GH the same subject.
	Among the suggestions nrged by you on the consideration of the
Federal Government is one for an ironclad steamner to be stationed at
Boston. We have not, however, a vessel of this description that can
be spared from other duty and appropriated to that object at this time.
Nor, with due deference, do I timiuk that such a vessel is tIme best
adapted to the coast defenses of Massachusetts and New England,
although it might be more useful, perhaps, in the harbor of Boston
should a roving privateer or pirate make its appearance at that port

Page 177

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	177

But the turreted vessels which we have, while admirably adapted for
harbor defense and operations on the coast, are not vessels of speed,
and therefore would not be efficient, except at a ~ingle point, it has
aJ)peared to me that, to guard against the improbable but possible
contingency of a hasty descent by one or more of these rovers upou
some unprepared place upon the coast, it might be a wise precaution
to have a fast cruiser stationed at Boston and always prepared for serv-
ice. Snch a vessel, besides affording security to Boston and its imme-
diate vicinity, would, on receiving iiitelligence from any place on the
coast, by telegraph or otherwise, proceed at once to the scene of danger,
and with a probability of capturing the invader.
	For the extensive coast of New England such a vessel would be
more efficient than one of the ironclads. We can at this time ill spare
one of our fast cruisers fbr such a service, but ft may be a wise and
advisable precaution demanded by the great population and interests
involved. The Department will, therefore, make it a point to have a
cruiser stationed at Boston.
	Your suggestions, made through Senator Sumner, that a battery be
placed on the Ohio shall have immediate attention, and, although we
can not fit her for cruising, she will afford additional security to Boston.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	His Excellency JOHN A. ANDREW,
Governor of the State of Massachusetts.



Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Lieutenant- Commander A lien, U. S. Navy, com-
manding U. S. S. Oneida, to proceed to St. Thomas, West Indies.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
St. Pierre, Martinique, May 2, 1863.
	SIR: You will proceed immediately with the Oneida to the harbor of
St. Thomas, and on your arrivaj there fill up with coal and take on
board provisions and small stores, if you need them, to last not less
than three Inontlis. On application, the U. S. consul, Mr. Edgar, will
afford you all the assistance you may need.
	You will remain at St. Thomas until further orders.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
	Lieutenant-Commander W. N. ALLEN,
Commanding U. S. S. Oneida.


keport of Captain Price, U S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Jamestown,
of arrival at Batavia, Java.
U.	S. SHIP JAMESTOWN,
Batavia Roads, May 3, 1863.
	SIR: I have to inform the Department of the arrival here of this
ship on the 29th ultimno, after touching at Anjer for a few hours.
	N W RYOL II	1

Page 178

178	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I was short of bread and wood, which induced me to stop here, as well
as for information. I spoke an American ship in the Strait of Sunda,
bound to Hongkong, for sale at that place; also another at this place,
from Boston, with ice. Neither of them saw or heard of any privateers
on the way.
	*	* *	*	*	*	*

	I recommend that warrants be given to Acting Boatswain Robert
Anderson and Acting Gunner Geo. L. Albro, both of whom have served
the probation required in a very satisfactory manner.
	I shall leave in a day or two for the China Sea and Macao.
	-J have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CICERO PRICE,
Captain.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Instructions of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding
West India Squadron, to Commander Nichols, U S. Navy, command-
ing U. S. S. Alabama, relative to cruising.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
Fort Royal, Martinique, ]Jlay 3, 1863.
	SIR: You will visit the island of Barbados and return to coinmuni-
cate with this island, thence to Pointe ~ Pitre to take in some coal, if
necessary, and proceed up through this chain of islands to coal and fill
up with provisions and small stores at St. Thomas, where you will find
me or orders.
	As the consul at St. Thomas is now authorized to draw for funds,
payable in specie, you will make a requisition on him for the amount
your vessel will require for three months. When at St. Thomas, if
possible, I would have you order your lever beam to be strapped with
wrought-iron bars its whole length. When properly fitted they may be
shrunk on by the application of charcoal heat in small furnaces without
the removal of the lever.
	You will duly apportion your time so as to reach St. Thomas before
your supplies are exhausted.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,

	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander B. T. NICHOLS, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Steamer Alabama.



Letter from the governor of Massachusetts to the Secretary of the Navy,
regarding means for the protection of the Massachusetts coast.

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS,
Executive Department, Boston, May 4, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the 2d instant.
	1am highly gratified by your suggestion that it may be decided by
the Navy Department to station a fast-sailing cruiser in the harbo

Page 179

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	179


of Boston, always prepared for service, and able, on receiving intelligence
from any place on the coast, by telegraph or othe~wise, to proceed at
once to the scene of danger and with a probability of capturing the
invader.
	It is manifest that for the extensive coast of New England such a
vessel is desirable, and is adapted to the performance of important serv-
ices impossible to be rendered by the armored floating batteries of the
monitor class. I urge the early dedication of one of the ironclads now
in process of construction here to the protection of our coast, having in
view especially the harbor of Boston. I do so in full recollection and
with full comprehension of the limitations which pertain to that class
of war vessels. I am aware that they are not properly seagoing craft,
that they are very slow, work heavily against a current or a tide, are
liable to founder, and the like, but I am painfully sensible to the itiad-
equate character of the armament of our fortifications, and, although
we are at work endeavoring through the agency of a competent com-
mission of enquiry to ascertain and secure an appropriate method for
the obstruction of the channels, so as to hold out an intruder at proper
points of distance from the city and at convenient points for the action
against them of the guns in our forts, still, admitting that to have been
accomplished, I believe it is clear and that it conforms to the judgment
of the Engineer Corps that the system of defenses for the harbor of Bos-
ton will still remain inadequate and be incomplete without the addition
of a floating battery. To this end I desire the assignment of one of the
monitors.
	I should feel less anxiety if I could see any probability that the proper
armament of the fortifications on Castle Island, Georges Island, and
Governors Island, including the heavy Rodman gun and the rifled
Parrott gun, would be supplied at any early day. But, unless guns
are imported in large numbers and immediately, I can not yet, and
after much enquiry, perceive where are the sources in this country of
supply of heavy ordnance at all commensurate to the demand. Mean-
while, and as a protection against such craft as the Alabama is, I have
respectfully petitioned, and do now repeat the petition, that the Ohio,
or the best available ship of war in the Charlestown navy yard, may
receive on board the best battery possible and may be ordered to some
point in Boston Harbor where she may best successfully attack an
invader. If Commodore Montgomery shall receive sufficient orders he
does not hesitate to declare the opinion that the Ohio may be rendered,
with the powerful battery she is adapted to carry, entirely able to
destroy one, or even two such vessels as the Alabama, before they could
seriously injure Boston. A fast vessel is needed to act as occasion
may demand, moving with celerity from point to point along our line of
coast. All vessels, I submit, ought to be compelled to lay to and report
themselves to a boarding officer before passing the range of the guns of
Fort Warren. In order to carry into effect such a regulation a fast sea-
going armed steamer seems to be necessary.
	All I have said and written is influenced by my impression of two
necessities; one of them is a present and immediate necessity, to wit,
that of being able to prevent a single steamer of war like the Alabama
from being enabled to visit, humiliate, and lay under disastrous con-
tribution a rich and tempting community like that of the capital of
Massachusetts.
	Probably no exploit of which the rebels and their sympathizers can
conceive could a~ford, by its s~mc~essfnl accomplishment, a keener delight

Page 180

180	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

iNor would I hesitate a moment to peril anything personal to niyself
of life or hope, this side of Heaven, in order to prevent it, nor, indeed,
is any mans life so precious that it would not ~e a cheap offering if
it were necessary and if it could be effectual.
	The second necessity is one more remote and more contingent, I
agree, but still, I apprehend, not unlikely and not very fhr ofL I allude
to the likelihood of foreign war. Perhaps this may not come, but I sup-
pose that we can not assume our final escape from that trial, and I respect-
fully suggest that one of our means of avoiding foreign war will be the
successful demonstration of martial and naval power, not only in acts
of offense against the rebel armies and the seats of rebel power, but
also of unconquered and invincible defense at home against their raids
both by land and sea.
I have the honor to be, respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOHN A. ANDREW,
Governor of Massachusetts.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
Report of Commander Glitz, U. S. N	commanding U. S. S. Juniata,
of arrival at Havana, Cuba, from Fortress Monroe, Va.

U.	S. S. JUNIATA,
Havana, May 5, 1863.
	SIR: I have to inform you that I arrived at this place to-day with
the Juniata under my command, having sailed from Fortress Monroe
on the 26th of April. Your order of April (no date), 1863, has been
received. I hope to be able to get to sea in course of two or three days.
	I have sent to Thos. Savage, esq., vice-consul-general of this place,
all dispatches, letters, letter bags, etc., addressed to you.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
J.	M. B. CLITZ,
Commander.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHAS. WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron.



Instructions of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes,
U.	S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, regarding change of
arrangements for convoy of California steamers.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, May 6, 1863.

	SIR: The coal ship National Guard sailed from New York on the 1st
instant for Cape Haitien.
	At the request of the owner of the California line of steamers the
Department has made a different arrangement for convoying them.
They will hereafter, on the outward trip, take the Mariguana Passage,
and the Department has assigned to the Mercedita, Commander G. 1W.
Ransom, the special duty of convoying the steamers from Mariguana
Island to the island of Navassa. On their homeward trip they will
come by Cape [San] Antonio, where little danger is to be appreheuded

Page 181

OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.	181

and consequently the Connecticut is to be withdrawu from the special
service of affording them convoy as soon as the Mercedita enters upon
her duty.
	The Mercedita is to be attached to your sqnadr?~n, and Commander
Ransom has been directed to report to you by letter by the first oppor-
tunity and furnish you with a copy of his instructions. The Depart-
meiit, however, does not wish you to divert the IVfercedita from the special
duty assigned unless you supply her place ~ ith a suitable steamer.
	The days of sailing of the steamers from New York have been
changed to the 3d, 13th, and 23d of each ,month, except when those
days fall on Sunday, when they depart the following Monday.
	The	]Jliercedita is expected to leave Boston to-morrow.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding U. S. West India. Squadron, Havana, Cuba.



Order of the Secretary ~f the Navy to Commander Cooper, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Connecticut, to return to New York on the arrival
of U. S. S. Mercedita for duty as convoy steamer.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, May 6, 1863.

	SIR:	The U. S. S. Mercedita has been detailed to convoy the Cali-
fornia steamers on the outward trip through the Mariguana Passage,
aiid as they come by Cape [San] Antonio on the homeward trip, no
convoy is considered necessary. When, therefore, you learn at Aspin-
wall that the Mercedita has entered upon the duty assigned, and has
actually convoyed one of the outward steamers, you will return with
the U. S. S. Connecticut to New York.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy.
Commander GEO. II. COOPER,
Commanding U. S. S. Connecticut, Aspinwall, New Granada.



Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to the governor of Massachusetts,
stating that no monitor is available for the protection of Boston Harbor.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, May 7, 1863.

	Sin:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communi-
cation of the 4th instant, in which you request that one of the monitors
may be assigned for the defense of Boston flarbor, and to state in
reply that there is no vessel of that class at this time available.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

His Excellency JOHN A. ANDREW,
Governor of Massachusetts, Boston

Page 182

182	OPERATIONS OP TIlE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Commander Cooper, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Con-
necticut, of the sailing of that vessel as convoy.

U. S. S.CONNECTICUT,
Bay of Aspinwall, May 7, 1863.
	SIR:	I respectfully report that we will sail to convoy the mail steamer
Ocean Queen.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, G. II. COOPER,

Commanding U. S. S. Connecticut.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Actin~q Rear-Admiral Wilkes,

U.	S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, May 8, 1863.
	SIR:	Please inform the Department why the Oneida has not been
returned to Rear-Admiral Farraguts squadron, agreeably to its order.
Yery respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Acting Rear-Admiral CUAs. WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron, Havana, Cuba.


Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Mohican,
of immediate departure for the coast of Brazil in search of C. S. S.
Florida.
U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Porto Grande, Cape Verde Islands, May 9, 1863.
	SIR:	The French mail steamer has this moment arrived, and brings
news that the Florida has buriwd six Americait vessels in the port of
Fernando de Noronha, near the coast of Brazil. I sail immediately in
chase of her. Letters will reach me at Rio de Janeiro by the English
mail. I shall return to my cruising ground if 11 do not capture her.
We are all well and hope soon to capture some of the piratical vessels.
The crews of the burned vessels were landed at Bahia, coast of Brazil.
They were bnrned on the 1st day of May.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0. S. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Commander Trenchard, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Rhode Island, of the chase by that vessel, off Nassau, New Provi-
dence, of supposed blockade runner.
U. S. S. RHODE ISLAND,
Nassau, New Providence, May 12, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that this morning, May 12, while
running in for this port, and when front 10 to 12 miles E. N. E. of
Cochrane Anchorage, we made the black smoke of a steamer about 

Page 183

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	183

miles to the northward and eastward of us. Supposing she was a
blockade runner, we changed our course and stood so as to cut her off.
The chase fired up and increased her speed, andperceiving that we
were gaining upon lier, and discovering our intention to cut her off, ran
in for the shore, hoisting English colors, and we our own ensign.
	We then bred a blank cartridge, and afterwards a shell ahead of her,
for the purpose of bringing her to, but she still retaining her speed, we
kept up a brisk fire from our long-range rifled guns, she being now
from 2 to 2~ miles distant from the Rhode Island and from 8 to 10 miles
from the shore.
	The chase continued standing in for the land, and when within from
4 to ~A miles distant from it (in the opinion of our Bahama pilot), in
order to prevent a violation of neutrality, we discontiiiued the firing,
still hoping that we might be able to cut her off before running ashore.
as that appeared to be the last resort of her commander, and soon
after she came to anchor at Salt Cay entrance.
	I have put in here to communicate with the U. S. consul, and will
proceed to sea this afternoon to carry out the orders of Admiral Wilkes,
to whom I intend fowarding a copy of the above.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
STEPHEN D. TRENCHARD,
Commander.
lion. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary ~f the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander Nichols, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Alabama,
of cruise from May 7 to 12, 1863.

U.	S. S. ALABAMA,
St. Thomas, May 12,1863.
	ADMIRAL: In obedience to your order of the 7th instant, I proceeded
to Pointe a Pitre, where I arrived on the mnorning of the 8th, and deliv-
ered your letter and instructions to the U. S. consul. Found there the
ship Fairfield and brig Romance, with nearly 1,200 tons of coal. Both
vessels were consigned to the senior naval officer at Pointe a Pitre,
and both captains were ordered to report accordingly. No place had
been selected for landing the coal, and. I directed the consul to procure
one at once and commence discharging. The ship had still eleven lay
days, when demurrage would commence at $62 per day. The brig had
two days left and her demurrage is $27 per day. I endorsed the bills
of lading over to the consul, and remained during the day, at his request,
to advise with him as to the disposition of the coal.
	A piece of ground has been secured for a depot, very near the
entrance of the harbor, easy of access and very convenient for lighter-
age. The ground was offered at 100 francs per month and the stow-
age of coal limnited to 1,200 tons, or 1,500 francs per year and no limit
to the quantity. I advised by all means to accept the latter offer,
which he did, and the vessels were to commence discharging on the
morning of the 9th. 1 paid all claims against the squadron, and paid
off the pilot. Left Pointe a Pitre at daylight on the 9th and anchored
the same evening at St. Johns, Antigua, where I communicated with
our consul, who had no information to communicate. In his residence
there of over two months one American vessel has entered. Time feel-
ing of the people, white and black, he represents as very unfriendly to
the United States

Page 184

184	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	On the morning of the 10th I left St. Johns, communicated with the
consul at St. Kitts, and proceeded on for St. Bartholomew, but discov-
ering two barks at anchor at St. Eustatia [EustaNus], ran in and spoke
them. They were two American whalers who had no news. Arrived
at St. Bartholomew the same evening, and on the following morning
(11th) paid my respects to the governor. Left at noon and ran over to
St. Martin, where I anchored and sent a boat on shore for the consul.
Waited until (3 p. in., when I recalled the boat and came to sea. It
appears that the consul was sick, at some distance in the country, and,
though a message had been sent to him while I was in the offing, noth-
ing had been heard from him up to the time my boat left. The officer
who went on shore in the boat reported to me that he was informed by
a man that the British frigate Phaeton visited the island of Sombrero
some weeks since, and her commander ordered the American flag
hauled down. The person in charge refused to do so, when he was
threatened by the British captain, and finally struck with a cane, after
which some of the frigates people hauled down the flag. This is the
story as related to me by my officer, but it seems very improbable.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
Enw. T. NICHOLS,
Commander.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron.



Detailed report of Acting Aear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding
West India Squadron, of the movements of the vessels of his command
in the search/or C. S. steamers Florida and Alabama transmitting let-
ter from the governor of Martinique.

U.	S. FLM~-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
St. Thomas, May 13, 1863.
	SIR: My last letter relative to the duties performed by the squadron
under my command was dated the 16th of April, since which time we
have been actively engaged in visiting ports and places where informa-
tion led us to believe the privateer rebel vessels had been seen or were
expected. At the same time, I have taken the opportunity of visiting
the different steamers cruising in and about the Bahama channels, the
islands lying east of them, and Nassau, to have an interview with our
new consul, Mr. Hawley, and to put ourselves in communication with
him.
	The impression is that one if not the two rebel steamers will seek
Nassau to coal and refit when the ninety days have expired. I can not
myself believe that this was the intention of the British Government
in limiting the time to ninety days. The intention was to give aid and
assistance when in distress, to coal or make repairs from damage which
had taken place at sea, to enable the vessels to reach the nearest port
of their country, and this appears fully warranted in limiting the sup-
I)ly to carry them to their nearest port. This, however, has not been
the construction put upon it, for they have filled up with coal to make,
with their sailing capabilities, fully ninety days, and the strong bias
which exists in the British islands has construed it to afford them a
full supply, and thus enable them to continue their depredations. I
think this would be a strong point to exhibit the advantage taken o

Page 185

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	185

Earl IRussells letters of instructions, and the nonconformity to it [them]
by their officials, enabling these rebel privateers to renew their nefi rious
cruising by the aid afforded them by official Brit~li sympathizers hi
not doing their duty to them, and using all their power to curtail aiiy
privileges the letters of instruction might give ns; although, to say
the truth, matters are now so arranged as to avoid our visiting or coal-
ing at their ports, except to communicate with our consuls and consular
agents.
	As I before wrote you, we have not taken a pound of coal from any
British port. I am confident we shall not need it, as by my arrange-
ments the vessels of my squadron will be so timed in their cruiMing [as]
to make either of our coaling stations. This being the case, could the
British Government be induced to order the strict construction of their
instructions, it would very much cripple the Confederates and throw
them back on the necessity of having supply vessels at those harbors
which are unfrequented and are readily examined by our vessels every
few days.
	One thing I would observe to the Department: We reqnire to have
agents at many of those cays and islands to obtain and give us infor-
mation, and I would suggest that I might be empowered to appoint a
few at the most important points, where reliable ones could be found.
These islands are within the consular agencies, but they have no
knowledge of them except by name, and they are the resort of the
Confederates for the purpose of obtaiiiing supplies as well as informa-
tion. I mention the case of the Retribution, which took her prize, the
Hanover, of I~oston, to Fortune Island, in the Crooked Island Passage,
ran the prize on shore in a safe place, took out all her cargo and sent
itEto Nassau for sale, afterwards getting the vessel off, loaded her with
salt, and attempted to run the blockade, when, 1 believe, she was cap-
tured. These facts I learned on my visit to Fortune Island, where, it
is well known, the rebels are in the habit of stopping for letters which
are brought from Nassau regularly in the Eiiglish island mail boat.
	During the beginning of the month the Sonorna was sent to the reef
harbor of Alacran, on the Yucatan coast, to examine it. From informa-
tion I received at Havana I had reason to believe that one or two coal
vessels had gone there. Commander Stevens found none, and ascer-
tained that none had been there. He also looked into Mugeres Harbor,
thence to the Grand Cayman, and joined me at Cape St. Nicolas Mole.
	On my arrival at Cape St. Nicolas Mole Ii was disappointed in not find-
ing the Santiago de Cuba and Rhode Island. Captain iRidgely reports
having gone on an examination of the islands and passages leading to the
Windward Island Passage, and would pass through the North East
and North West passages of the Bahama group to Key West to coal.
Having Commander Wyman with us, I transferred him to the Sonoma
to pass on the south side of Cuba, touching in at Cienfuegos, and
thence around Cape San Antonio to Key West to intercept the Santiago
de Cuba and Rhode Island, sending them orders to resume their sta-
tions off the east end of Cuba in the Windward Passage, passing up
by dift~rent routes, and to examine the islands and cays on their tracks.
They will visit Cape Haitien Harbor, where in future they will coal
out of the National Guard.
	In the Vanderbilt we proceeded across the Mona Channel, where I
had ordered the Shepherd Knapp to cruise. We stopped for a day at
San Juan Harbor on business with the authorities and Mr. Latimer,
as well as our consnl, Mr. Hyde. I was, as before, very kindly received,
and had a satisfactory explanation of a slight misunderstanding whic

Page 186

186	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

I became aware of and which had left an unpleasant impression. The
next morning we arrived off St. Thomas and found the Wachusett
and Shepherd Knapp, the former all well except 1iI~r. Otis, whom I was
obliged, from the state of his health, to order to return home. The
Shepherd Knapp had been detained iii port from the mutinous conduct
of her officers and some of her men. On anchoring I found our consul
had received a dispatch from our consul at Martinique that the Alabama
had anchored in Galion Bay on the east side, and that the [U. S. S.]
Alabama, Commander Nichols, and Oneida had both sailed to blockade
her. We lost no time, and in two hours we were underway, steaming
rapidly for Martinique, off which we arrived in thirty hours, and pro-
ceeded at once off Galion Bay to communicate. After a careful exam-
ination, and not finding our Alabama and the Oneida, we proceeded to
the west side of the island, off St. Pierre, where we found the Oneida
and Alabama. They had already made a careful examination of the
bays on the east side, well adapted for the concealment of a vessel.
	I found the evidence from reliable persons so strong of the Alabama
having communicated with the east side, and that a protest had been
sent Commander Nichols for his having visited those bays, that I deter-
mined to go at once to Fort de France, some 8 miles to the southward,
ko have an interview with the acting governor. We saluted the French
flag, which was promptly returned, and the hour of 9 oclock the next
morning was appointed for an interview with the governor. I accord-
ingly waited upon him, and was cordially received. I found that he
was apprehensive that in case of our finding the rebel vessel in his
waters an eQcounter might take place, and the object of his dispatch
was to call attention of Commander Nichols to the neutrality of the
French waters and the appearance of our vessels blockading the island.
This, of course, I repudiated, as I felt assured he could not suffer the
rebel Semmes to visit those ports on the east side where they were
not open to the admission of vessels, but that we had looked closely
along the shores for any vessels that might be secreted, and felt we had
a right to remain outside the neutral limit, to which he readily assented.
I have no doubt, however, in my own mind that the governor and
authorities would afford Semmes all the aid in their power in furnish-
ing supplies whenever he required them. I think that some dissatis-
faction arose in his mind from the factthat Commander Nichols had not
paid Fort de France a visit and communicated with him~ This he failed
to do in consequence of the prevalence at Fort de France of the vario-
bid, but the authorities of these islands are very jealous of their posi-
tion, and he had evidently taken some affront. I stated to him these
reasons, which appeared to satisfy him, and he desired me to say no
more about it. I enclose you a translation of his letter, which will more
clearly show his views. He did me the honor of visiting the Vanderbilt,
and was received with due honors, and the affair, as far as his words
went, seemed to have obviated a reply in writing to his letter.
	We left Fort de France early and anchored off St. Pierre, where I had
left the Alabama, having sent the Oneida to St. Thomas to coal and fill
up with provisions.
	Shortly after anchoring, a gentleman [of~ one of the first commercial
houses here and warm in our interests, showed me a letter which
stated positively that Semmes had comniunicated with the island and
might still be in some of the small anchorages of the island. I imme-
diately requested him to dispatch a confidential messenger to the other
side overland to ascertain the fact, amid left in the Vanderbilt for Bar-
bados presuming that, if Semmes had failed to get coal here and fel

Page 187

OPERATiONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	187

the impossibility of it from the presence of our cruisers, he might visit
that island, 90 miles distant, and perhaps St. Lucia, some 30 miles
off. By daylight we reached Barbados, but he~ had not made his
appearance, nor had there beeu anything heard of either the Alabama
or the Florida. We theu returned, looking into St. Lucia, and also
again passed up on the east side of Martiniqne, within a short distance,
examining carefully the whole coast, but could see nothing of any ves-
sel; thence we came round the north end of the island to St. Pierre,
where we again anchored for a few hours.
	The confidential person sent over to Fran~ois Bay [Pass], on the east
side, to examine it, as well as Robert Bay [Harbor], Cul-de-Sac Fr6g-
ate, and all the passes and anchorages where any vessels or boats
crews could land and have communication with the inhabitants, ascer-
tained beyond a doubt that no vessel of the kind, or boat, had had any
communication whatever with the shore, although it was confidently
expressed by many that Semmes was expected in this island, the great
majority of whose inhabitants are very friendly disposed toward him
and the rebel cause, so that if he shonld touch here he would undoubt-
edly receive all possible aid from the highest official to the lowest.
The shores of this island, on its east side, afford many facilities, with
good harbors, wherein to obtain the supplies he needs, and from the
fact of the sugar estates (which are numerous on the east side) using
coal in the refining process, there would seem but little difficulty in his
getting a supply of 200 tons by means of the small coasters.
	I have desired the consul to obtain suitable confidential persons at
these points who will give our cruisers immediate notice; besides, we
shall keep acareful watch on the coal. Some 600 tons were landed at
St. Pierre, which belongs to the Confederates, and is in the hands or
keeping of one Coupal, who is their agent. If any is being shipped
from it we shall have early advices of it. The presence of our force
here has become known at the other islands, and will deter Semmes
from the attempt, I think, to seek this point. This is the general
belief among those who are his aiders and abettors here.
	Just about the time of the report of Semmes being in the neighbor-
hood, Commander Nichols received the dispatch spoken of from the
acting governor, which would seem an attempt to get rid of our vessels,
and being coincident with the general impression of his expected arrival,
seemed to infer some understanding on the part of the acting governor.
The objections raised by him to our visiting the ports or bays on the
east side, which are not ports of entry, the acting governor assured me
should extend to the Confederates. The arrangements I have made,
as above disclosed to you, will not require us to do so, and should
Semmes attempt it he will be ordered off, without receiving the expected
supplies. Of this the acting governor gave me the fullest assurance.
At the same time he would be compelled by the Emperors proclama-
tion to afford them the same accommodations he gave us in the com-
mercial ports, as you will perceive he mentions in his letter. My
interview was a very friendly one, and ended in mutual expressions of
satisfaction.
	Having detailed to you the circumstances, I will now give you a synop-
sis of the cruise of the Alabama and Oneida to the Leeward Islands, west
as far as Cura~ao. They proceeded along the islands of St. Lucia,
Tobago, tothatof Trinidad, Portof Spain, where they communicated with
our consul, and then examined the Testigos, Blanquilla, the islands of
Margarita and Cura~ao, where they took in sonme coal, returning by
the same route. to the island of Martinique, off which they remaine

Page 188

188	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.

some days, thence to Pointe a Pitre, Guadeloupe. After a short stay
they again came off Martinique, as reports were rife that the Ala-
bama would seek her supplies here. On the 25th [~pril] the advent of his
arrival was expected, and a dbspatch reached me, as before related,
at St. Thomas, which was acted upon, the result of which I have
minutely detailed to you above.
	The mayor of St. Pierre did me the honor of a visit, and was appro-
priately received. He voluntarily offered us all the hospitalities of the
place and any assistance the authorities could afford the vessels of
the squadron. This I, of course, accepted for what it was worth. I
returned to St. Thomas by the way of Santa Cruz, where the governor
of the Danish islands resides, in order to have an interview with him
respecting our vessels lying at the port of St. Thomas, to which many
objections have been attempted to be raised by the secessionists of St.
Thomas, and of which the president, Ilothe, residing at St. Thomas,
had written me, in my absence. A copy of his letter* I enclose. I
brought the subject up in my conversation with the governor, and we
talked it over very sociably. I dined with him and established a
friendly intercourse. He did me the honor to visit the ship at the west
end, when he was received with all due honors and respect. He left
the subject to President Itothe, who has the reputation of being a good-
natured man, easily influenced by the designing, and since the affair of
the fitting out of the Retribution is inclined to avoid difficulties on
either side. He has but little force of character. Yesterday I had a
conversation with him, and have answered his letter, a copy of which
answer I will forward to the Department. I think there will be no
more difficulty, as he is satisfied, although many have been the reports
and complaints made to him about our actions, yet there is no truth or
confidence to be placed in them, and I feel fully convinced, should any
Confederate privateer touch here, they will receive no coal or other aid,
but will be requested to leave the port immediately; of this both the
governor, Birche, and President Rothe have assured me.
	It will continue to be my object to cultivate every friendly feeling
with all the authorities of these islands, to treat them with marked
attention, omitting no opportunity of showing them our friendly dispo-
sition, but at the same time I shall keep up the strictest surveillance
that their position as neutrals permits and ours as a belligerent warrants.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,

Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India ~4quadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

&#38; cretary of the Navy.
[Enclosure.]

GOVERNMENT OF MARTINIQUE,
OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR,
Port de Prance, April 28, 1863.
	SIR: I was informed some time ago that two ships of the Union were
at Martinique, and, in obedience to the orders of his Majesty the
Emperor, I gave direction that all facilities within the limits of the
duty imposed by our neutrality should be extended to you (luring your
stay in the colony which I govern. While the Alabama and Oneida
were at anchor at St. Pierre I did not have, sir, the least objection to

See pp. 148155

Page 189

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	189

their presence, nor did I modify my instructions; but I learn to-day that
those two vessels, quitting that roadstead for the second time, have
just returned from Galion Bay, and that they did not leave the latter
place for St. Pierre till they had assured themselves that no ship of the
Southern States, which claim to have formed a separate confederation,
was to be found there.
	That kind of inspection, sir, constitutes a surveillance over the shores
of a French colony, which I can not allow. It has, mo reover, the
appearance, and more or less the consequences, of a species of blockade,
injurious in that it might lead you to entertain only such a regard for
French waters as would not rescue (save), in case of an encounter, the
vessels of the Southern States, to which, moreover, the French ports
are conditionally open, as they are to you.
	I will,then, sir,now offer to you, as I would do verbally if I had the
honor of seeing you, in whichever port of this colony you will d esig-
nate, all the facilities which it will be possible for me to put at your
disposal,but I have at the same time the honor to remind you that
you can no longer make that port the center of surveillance, leaving it
to go rto] such or such a point where you might expect to find ships of
the South, or going for a short time in the offing to reconnoiter ships
in sight and immediately returning to the anchorage. This attitude,
I have the honor to repeat, sir, is as contrary to the neutrality pre-
scribed by the Government of the Emperor as it is in view of the
respect due to waters under the territorial jnrisdiction of France.
	Such, sir, are the principles which, I have no doubt. it has been
necessary on~y for me to bring before you in order that they may
always be observed iii the fnture by the two ships of the Government
of the Union which are under your orders.
Accept, sir, my distinguished considerations.
THE GOvERNOR OF MARTINIQUE.

COMMANDER OF THE U. S. S. ALABAMA,

At Anchor off St. Pierre.


Instructions of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding
West India Squadron, to Commander Bryson, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. S. Chippewa, relative to cruising.

FLAG-STEAMER YANDERBILT,

St. Thomas, May 13, 1863.
	SIR: On your route to Port Royal you will stop at Cape ilaitien, San
Domingo, where you will find the National Guard and perhaps the
Rhode Island and Santiago de Cuba. You will deliver the accompany-
ing dispatch to Commander Trenchard or Commander Wyman, if
present; if not, it is to be left with the commanding officer of the
National Guard, or, if perchance she should not have arrived, then
with the consul at Cape ilaitien. You will then proceed to Nassau,
leaving the accompanying dispatch for the U. S. consul at that place.
Then you will proceed to cruise oft~ the North East Channel or Abaco,
where you will arrive about the dark of the moon, the time the blockade
runners depart for and arrive from the coast. There you will remain
cruising until the 27th of the month, and then proceed to Port Royal and
report, in obedience to your orders.
	Should you fall in with any prizes, you will order them to Key West
for adjudication, so that the prize officers and crew may rejoin you at
Port Royal by the first supply [steamerj returning to the northward

Page 190

190	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSU~{ION.

	You will fill up with coal at Cape ilaitien from the National Guard,
an(1 will no doubt receive information from our c~ nsul, Mr. Hawley, at
Nassau, of the intended departure or expected movements of the
blockade runners or rebel vessels.
	The pilot, Wilson, will be put on board of any one of the squadron,
on your time having expired, you may fall in with and before leaving.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient s~rvant,
rCHARLES WILKES,]
Commanding West India Squadron.
	Commander A. BRYSON, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Gunboat Chippewa, St. Thomas.



Instructions of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding
West India Squadron, to Commander Trenchard, U. S. Navy, com-
manding U. S. S. Rhode Island, relative to cruising.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
St. Thomas, May 13, 1863.
	SIR: It has appeared to me that the presence of the Rhode Island
and Santiago de Cuba may not be needed off Jamaica for a few days.
It would be advisable for you to occupy the offshore ground mentioned
in my instructions to Captain mdgely, now in possession of Commander
Wyman, during the dark days of the moon coining, unless you have
such other information as will call you to more important duty on the
ground pointed out in the instructions recently sent you.
	Just at this time it seems to me all important to intercept the block-
ade runners from affording any aid or comfort to the rebels, and the
presence of the Rhode Island and Santiago de Cuba may be of serv-
ice in checking them from going forward, if not in capturing them.
The dark nights of the moon should be the limit of your stay on the
ground to the northward.
	You will leave a report on board of the National Guard for me in
regard to your actions that I may get early advice from you in casesof
my touching there, which seems to me very uncertain just now.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[CHARLES WILKES,]
Commanding West India Squadron.
	Commander S. D. TRENCHARD, U. S. Navy,

Commanding Steamer Rhode Island.



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of repairs required by U. S. S. Alabama.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
[May 13, 1863?]
	SIR: I regret to say that the side lever of the Alabama has a serious
crack in it and may give out at any moment. I have had a careful
examination made of it, and the opinion is that it can be strapped
lengthwise and made capable of performing service, and this, it is
believed, can be done at St. Thomas. I shall have it forthwith attended
to. Coxwaiander Nichols also reports his condenser as entirely wori

Page 191

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	191

out. I shall endeavor to have this also put in order, as they can not
condense any water for her crew and are obliged to resort to watering
ship after the old fi~shion. The capacity of the ta~ks is also very lim-
ited. I need not say, although these inconveniences came upon us
rather unexpectedly, I shall endeavor to overcome them and still keep
the surveillance over these islands, which will prevent their being
resorted to by the rebel steamers for coal.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,

Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

	Secretary of the Navy.



Instructions of Acting Rear Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding
West India Squadron, to Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Rytinge, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp, relative to cruising.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
St. Thomas, May 14, 1863.
	SIR:	You will proceed with the Shepherd Knapp to the port of Cape
Haitien, San Domii~ go, where you will find the ship National Guard.
You will receive from her the provisions and stores she may have on
board for the squadron.
	Should you.flnd the Rhode Island or Santiago de Cuba there you will
report to Commanders Trenchard or Wyman, who will have an extra
quantity of stores on board and may be desirous of getting rid of them.
They may be put on board of your vessel. You will make all haste
to perform this service, as it is important for the operations of the
squadron.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient Servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Commanding II. S. EYTINGE,
Commanding Ship Shepherd Knapp.



Instructions of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U S. Navy, commanding
West India Squadron, to Lieutenant-Commander Allen, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Oneida, relative to cruising.

U.	S. S. VANDERBILT,
St. Thomas, May 14, 1863.
	SIR:	You will proceed to sea with the Oneida and repair to the island
of Guadeloupe, stopping on your way and communicating with the
island of Sombrero, thence looking in at all the islands betweeu it and
Pointe a Pitre.
	After touching at Poiute a Pitre you will visit the island of Martin-
ique, where you will have communication with the consul for informa-
tion relative to the rebel cruisers. You will pass round the islands of
St. Lucia [audi Tobago, and may run over to Barbados. These limits
will be your cruising ground for the present

Page 192

192	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I desire you to use as little coal as possible, and keep yourself under
low steam, although ready for any emergency that may come upon you.
I enclose a dispatch for Mr. Thionville, our cons4zll at Pointe ~ Pitre,
which you will deliver on your arrival, and pay the amount that may
be found due for lighterage of coal and for its deposit on shore. Your
paymaster will receive the proper receipts. When you require coal you
will resort to Pointe ?~ Pitre for that objcct.
	Any information you may receive of interest you will promptly send
me by the first conveyance to St. Thomas, enclosing it to the consul
here. Commander Nichols will join you as soon as the repairs of the
Alabama are effected, and you will, as heretofore, be under his orders
and cruise with him. You will specially avoid doing aiiy act in your
communication with the several islands you may visit to give offeiise.
	While at Pointe ~ Pitre I think it would be well to allo the crew of
the Oneida liberty, but limited to a few at a time, and I wish you to
obtain the consent of the authorities for this purpose.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
	Lieutenant-Commander W. N. ALLEN, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Steamer Oneida.


Letter from the U. S. consul at Nassau, New Providence, to Acting Rear-
Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron,
regardin~f blockade runners in that port.

U.	S. CONSULATE,
Nassau, New Providence, ]iJay 14, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your dispatch,
under date of April 20, off Fortune Island. It was delivered by Coin.
mander S. D. Trenchard, of the Rhode Island. He cast anchor in front
of the town, exchanged salutes, and paid his I)ersonal respects to the
governor. He left the port at 6 p. in., having anchored about 1 oclock.
Coming in, he had occasion in coming to this port to chase an English
steamer up near to the 3-mile line. That circumstance and his anchor-
ing here immediately caused not a little popular excitement. The
report of Commander Trenchard will interest you especially, as it will
detail the circumstances of a design of the governor to detain him
twenty-four hours.
	After some pretty decided conversation the governor reconsidered the
matter, and made no objection to the commanders going to sea at his
own time. The Barracouta and the Rosario were both here and had
steam on prepared to take part in any naval exercise that might result
from the governors order. The Barracouta has been relieved by the
Rosario, and left the same evening for her new destination. The gov-
ernor was clearly wrong, as no Confederate vessels had left within
twenty-four hours, and if he had persisted in his position I think Com-
mander Trenchard would have weighed anchor and attempted to go to
sea at all hazards. I think he could have given a good account of both
opponemits.
	The circumstance that within an hour after a British steamer had
been chased into port by the Rhode Island the Government here
exchanged salutes and received a complimentary visit has had a good
effect upon the public mind.
	When the dark nights came oii a fleet of six blockade-running steam-
ers left here for Dixie. I hope some of them will be caught. Two hav

Page 193

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	193

arrived from Charleston within three days. Two new side-wheel
steamers have arrived from England and are being painted fog color.
iNo doubt that they and some four or five others ~Il attempt trips to
Charleston or Wilmington before the moonlight nights recur again.
Two steamers are expected daily from Havana to run the blockade.
These additions will make the fleet of blockade runners larger than
ever. The names of the two steamers from England are the Orion and
the Sirius; the last was the one chased in by the Rhode Island. The
notorious Captain Moore was on board, who is to be her captain. In
running from the Rhode Island she took refuge at Salt Cay and ran
upon the rocks, doing her some damage, but how much I do not know.
	I have endeavored to send information to the cruisers of your squad-
ron of the movement of the contraband steamers, according to the plan
I)rol)osed of leaving letters at certain points, but have had no success.
Three of my letters have been brought back. Those black captains of
wreckers will not trust the letters in the hands of persons at tIme points
named. They claim to distrust their fidelity and fear that they will be
themselves betrayed. All I can get them to do is to deliver the ines-
sages directly to a cruiser if they meet them. I suspect the black cap-
tains think that the persons who deliver the letters get some reward
01 compensation, which they want themselves. We must conform our
l)lalls to the views of these men or we can not secure their services.
	That there are several steamers in port about to sail for Dixie I
do not consider information of a character that would warrant me in
employing a vessel at $10 or $12 or more a day to give the notice to
the cruisers.  Your cruisers can assume that such is always the state
of things here, and as many arrivals as departures may be expected.
To this add the fact that these voyages aie mostly attempted when
there is no moou and you have about all that I could send you by
special dispatches, if I had means of daily communication. It would
not aid munch if you had the names of the craft. When the moonless
nights approach I think your squadron, if cruising in time several chan-
nels that lead to Nassau, would be likely to pick up prizes quite worth
takimi g.
	The blockade rummners have learned (though they have not beemm able
to l)revemlt it) that there are persons at Abaco and Stirrup Cay who
hoist signals when cruisers or blockade runners appear. For this
reason they have lately run off to Egg Island Reef and hug the land
near 1-lam-bor Island, then stand off northeast a long stincteim an(l then
bear away to Charleston. I am coufi(lellt that latterly this has been
their route, thus avoiding the North West ud North East p assagcs.
	*	*	* *	*	*

1 remain, sir, very respectfully, yours,
S.	C. HAWLEY,
U.	S. Consul, Nassau, Nen Providence.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHAnLES WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron, Flagship Vanderbilt.


Letter from the Boston board of trade to the Secretary of the Navy, set-
ting forth the defenseless condition of Boston flarbor and suggesting
measures for its protection.
BOSTON, May 15, 1863.
	SIR:	The harbor defense committee on the part of the board of trade
deem it their imperative (luty to apprise you of the very general and
N W RYOL II 1

Page 194

194	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

earnest solicitude which exists in this community in reference to the
comparatively defenseless state of the harbor against a sudden raid by
a piratical Confederate vessel, the number of wJ4ich we have reason to
believe is rapidly increasing. It has been stated that the condition of
the defenses of our harbor is the topic of remark iu certain commercial
circles in Liverpool, and it may be presumed that it is not unknowu to
some of the commanders of Confederate cruisers.
	It is now more thau a year and a half since representations as to the
need of further and more adequate means of defense of Bostou were
made both to the Navy and to the War Departments, and yet corn-
l)aratively little has been done more than to place in forts Jndepeid-
ence and Winthrop a few improved Rod man guns. The larger number
of the guns in all the forts are of an old pattern and small caliber, and
more than all, the forts are very imperfectly garrisoned. Under such
circumstances we trust thatyou will not regard it as unreasonablefor us to
ask that a United States naval vesLel be ordered to this port immediately
to j)rotect especially the entrance to this harbor through Broad Sound
and thereby protect this city from a possible sudden raid of an enemys
vessel. If no more efficient vessel can be spared from other branches
of the I)ublic service, will you allow me to suggest that the frigate
&#38; tbine, now in New York, fully manned and armed, and said to be of
too slow speed to be of any value in chasing piratical cruisers, may be
at once transferred to this harbor. New York has for its protection the
first-class iron-plated frigate Roanoke, and we have, therefore, sul)posed
that the &#38; tbine may be spared from service there. We have the best
reasons to believe, after conference with both scientific and practical
men, that the recruiting ship Ohio, which has been thought of for service
in defending this city, is quite inadequate, if not entirely useless, for
such a purpose, and for especial reasons so obvious to naval men that
we iieed not explain. You will ,therefore, we trust, appreciate our
urgent request that a more efficient vessel be placed here to give
security and confidence to the people. Will you permit us, also, to add
that it seems highly important that another vessel in addition to the
&#38; Lbine (and one not l)repaled for fighting esl)ecially) should be ordered
to cruise in the bay between Cape Cod and Cape Ann, as a vessel of
observation, under the command of a competent and vigilant officer, to
report the approach of an enemy by signal. Such a vessel should have
speed rather than a heavy battery, and relying rather on the guns of
the &#38; (bifle for her own protection. The English iron screw steamer
Aries, now in this port as a prize, and which has just been appraised
for the Government by the order of the United States court, is about
750 tons, very sharp, and doubtless fast, aiid would, we suggest, be well
adapted to the service above named. There is likewise in this port the
steamer J)upont, of 700 tons, built of iron, has side wheels, is of great
powei~ (having four cylinders), built originally in London to run between
Ilolyhead and Qucenstown as a mail packet, but recently captured as
a l)rize in attempting to run the blockade. She is now in private hands
and we understand can be bought. Her great speed would especially
qualify her for the service referred to. In this opinion, we are author-
ize(l to say, a naval officer and other maritime men concur.
	Members of this committee have several times accompanied United
States Government officers in a tour of inspection of the forts in this
harbor, and they therefore believe that they do not make assertions on
this subject without evidence, and, although the undersigned are no

Page 195

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	195

clothed with any power beyond that of personal influence in this mat-
ter, they feel a peculiar sense of responsibility to this community to
make full representation of the state of facts involved, that they at least
may stand acquitted by the public in case of any serious results from
coutinned omission to protect the city by the prompt action of the
appropriate departments of Government.
	I hope that our earnest request may receive your favorable considera-
tion and corresponding action.
	We have the honor to remain, with great respect, your obedient
servants,
E.	S. TOBEY,
R. B. FORBES,
SAM. II. WALLEY,
Committee.
Hon. GlDEoN WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.

	P. 5.Permit us to add that a care for the security of the navy yard
is worthy of consideration in reference to the matter of protection
herein proposed. Colonel iDimick, who is in command of Fort Warren,
has stated to the members of this committee, if he could have a vessel
of observation to give him proper notice, that he could prevent any
vessel (excepting an ironclad) from passing the Narrows. Broad Sound
would, however, be still unprotected.
	For the committee:
E.	S. TOBEY.



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India ASquadron, relative to the movements of the U. S. S. Chippewa,
Commander Bryson, U. S. Navy.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
St. Thomas, May 15, 18G3.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival at this l)ort on the 12th
1mm stant of the gunboat Chippewa, Commander A. Bryson, and to inform
the I)epartment that, having supplied her with 80 tons of coal, I ordered
the Chippewa to sail, which she did on the 14th instant, with instruc-
tions to l)roceed to Cape Haitien to fill up with coal, and from thence
to proceed to Nassau, touching at Fortune Island on her way, and to
communicate with our consul, Mr. Hawley, who would no doubt give
him some valuable information in relation to the movements of the
contraband runners, after which the Chippewa was ordered to cruise,
during the dark of the moon (until the 25th instant), oft the North
East Channel, or near Abaco, the route the rebel aiders usually take
in sailing from and approaching Nassau. The (Jhippewa will then pro-
ceed to Port Itoyal, agreeable to her instructions.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy

Page 196

196	OPERATIONS OF THE CRIJISERSUNION.

Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Withes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. S. Sono~ a.
FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
St. Thomas, May 16, 1~G3.
	SIR:	You will proceed with the Sonoma directly to New York and
report your arrival there to the honorable Secretary of the Navy.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[ChARLES WILKES,]
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander T. II. STEVENS, U. S. Navy,
Commandng Steamer Sonoma.



Report of Commander Cooper, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Connect-
icat, relative to convoy of mail steamers.

U.	S. S. CONNECTICUT,
Bay oJ Aspinwall, May 16, 1863.
	SIR:	I respectfully report that we continue to ct as convoy to the
mail steamers.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
(+.	II. COOPER,
Commanding U. 5. 5. Connecticut.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Loss of the Th S. ship Shepherd Knapp, May 18, 1863.

Report of Commander Trenchard, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Rhode Island, of the ground
ing of U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp off Cape Haitien, West Indies.

U.	S. S. linoDE ISLAND,
Cape Haitien, May 22, 1863.
	SIR:	Being the senior officer at this place, it becomes my duty to
rel)ort the fact of the U. S. ship Shepherd Knapps getting on shore on
the reef at the entrance of this port early in the evening of the 18th
instant.
	Upon learning the fact from her commander, the U. S. gunboat
Chippewa was at once dispatched to her relict; and the Santiago de Cuba
the following morning, the engine of this vessel at the time not beiiig
in working order. Every effort was made by these two vessels to haul
the Shepherd Knapp otL Findinj they were unable to start her,
arrangements were made with the U. S. consul to procure lighters,
which were promptly dispatched for the purpose of lightening her, as
that seemed to be the only course to pursue.
	rfhe Rhode Island, now being ready, was brought into service and as
soon as the Shepherd Knapp h d been lightened some 14 or 16 inches
the steamers were all ready with their steam power to  id in getting
her off, but, I regret to add, without success, notwithstanding the most
strennous efforts made by them during three days in lightening the
vessel and getting out anchors to haul her off by

Page 197

	OPERATIONS or THE cuuisnsrnuox.	197
The vessels battery, ammunition, ordnance, and other stores, pro-
visions, etc., have all been removed and placed on board the U.S. ship
Rational Gyard, and the officers and crew have beei tran ferred to the
same vessel to await the orders of the admiral commanding the West
India Squadron, with whom the BeSiege do (Yule will probably com-
municate ha few days.
	The SApherd Kuqpjta crew are now engaged in stripping the ship,
and if the weather continues favorable for a dayor two everything will
be removed to her lower masts. The vessel appears to have embedded
itself deeply in the coral reei her light draft being 18 feet and there
being 11 feet of water around her at high tida
Especial credit is due our consul at this place, Mr. Folsom, for his
promptness in dispatching the lighters, by means of which we were
enabled to remove thevessels battery and stores with so littledifficulty.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
STmnN D. TaNOHARD,
	(Yossaeder.
Hon. GiDEoN WELLES
Secretary of the ~ Washington, D.C.
Nepet .5 Aedug Vdateur Lisutmat ~ytbage, 1.5. Navy,	U.s. ship Shephed
Knapp, ef the pealing et that nudE kpe NaIUm,West India
U. S. S[mr4SnIHERD KNAPP,
(Yap. Haiti.., eat ~diee, May 85, 1868.
	Sm:	I have to report the grounding of this ship upon the shoal in
entering thisharbor under the following circumstances: At 8:10 p. m.
set a jack forward for a pilot; at 4 p. m. made signal numbers to the
men-of-war in the harbor; at 6p. m. fired signal gun for pilot No
pilot coming and the wind being very light and directly in the harbor,
not being a ~haul off I determined to anchor and wait fordaylight
I reduced sail totopsails,andthelandsmau gave soundings lOfatho
when the next heave gave &#38; I ordered tbe helm put hard aport, and
as the ship turned off the reef her afterkeel took thereef, and the force
of the current swung her on the wrongway,so she now headed S. E.
on the coral reef. tout anchors immediately to windward and
furling sails at once, attempted to heave her ot Failing in ~his,i
proceeded to the U. S. S. Rhode Ialaiud, Commander Trenchard, the
senior officer here, to whom I reported, and whoimmediately rendered
me every assistance, sending don the (ihippewa to tow us oft Every
effort toget the ship off by lightemug, removing battery, stores,
ordnance, ammunition starting water, sending down spars, etc., has
proved futile though tine two powerful steamers Santiago do (lube and
Rhode isiand put out their Nfl force, assistcA by our anchors, to get the
erything of value has been saved..
	Her battery (11 guns) and appointments, ordnance, yeomans and
masters stores, instruments and charts, provisions and clothing,spars,
sails, running and standing rigging, anchors and chains, everything
na-table and of value to the Government, has been saved. The only
loss isthehullanduseof theshi ,which has been surveyedby Com-
manders Trenohard, ix, an&#38; Bryson and recommended to be sold
for the benefit of the Government. The loss of this flue ship at this
peculiar moment, after hating commanded her nearly two years with
marked success, ills me with much grief, and especially as every car

Page 198

198	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

has always been taken by me to avoid accident or loss. It seems to
me to be a punition of Providence for the extraordinary pride I always
took in the command of this vessel and the sen~ of security I felt in
my own abilities.
	I bow submissively to the blow, and, in thanking the commanders
present for their kind offices, I beg to refer to them for a record of my
conduct nuder the painful circumstauces by which I have been sur-
rounded. I can not close without bearing testimony to the total abue-
gation of self on the part of the officers, and the indnstrial application of
the men to sustain my efforts to save the property of the Government.
I am, sir, with respect, your obedietit servant,
HENRY ST. U. EYTJNGE,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Commanding, U. ~. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

&#38; eretary of the Navy.


Report of Commander Trenchard, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Rhode Island, of the
removal from the U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp of everything of value.

U.	S. S. RHODE ISLAND,
Gape Ilaitien, May 23, 1863.
	SIR: I have to report that the Rhode I8land will procced to sea this
afternoon. I have directed Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Commanding
Eytinge, together with the officers and crew of the U. S. ship Shepherd
Knapp, to remain here until further orders from yourself or the Navy
Department. I found it necessary to hire lighters and additional labor
to assist in getting off from the Shepherd Knapp her battery, stores,
an(l other articles.
	Thus far everything of value, as stated in Captain Eytinges report,
has been saved belonging to that vessel, and I have directed him to
employ the boats and crew of the Shepherd Ku PP to save such further
portions of the vessel as he may be able to remove, stripping off the
copper as far down as he niay be able to reach.
	The vessel is reported to have bilged within the last twenty-four
hours.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
STEPHEN D. TRENCHARD,

Commander.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES, U. S. Navy,
Co~ manding We.~t India Squadron.



Report of Commander Trenchard, U. S. Nary, commanding U. S~ S.
Rhode Island, of cruise in obedience to orders.

U.	S. S. RHODE ISLAND,
Cape Haitien, May 20, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your cominuni-
cation of the 25th ultimo, a~~d in conformity therewith I conferred with
Captain Wyman, of the Santiago de Cuba, furnishing him with a copy
of your instructions. The Rhode Island, after coaling, left Key West
for Havana on the 7th instant, leaving the Santiago de (nba to follow
when ready aud meet us at Cape Ilaitien, according to your instru

Page 199

OPERATIONS OP TH1~ CUtUSERSIJNION.	199

tions. We arrived at Havana the following day and took on board the
papers, packages, etc., for you at that place. Leaving there on the
afternoon of the 9th instant, we proceeded on our wa~ to Nassau, falling
in with the Octorara off Stirrup Cay on the morning of the 11th instant,
and chasing the steamer Sirius on the 12th instant, a statement of the
facts in relation to which I enclose you herewith.
	We arrived at Nassau on that (lay (12th instant), when I communi-
cated with the U. S. consul, Mr. Hawley, and paid a visit to the gov-
ernor. Leaving Nassau that evening, we touched at San Salvador on
Thursday, May 14, at Fortune Island May 15, and at Inagna May 16,
arriving at this place on Sunday morning, May 17.
	*	*	*	*	* *	*

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	STEPHEN I). TRENUHARD,
	Commander.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES, U. S. Navy,
Commanding West India Squadron.


Report of Commander Clary, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tioga,
of cruise in search of blockade runners.

U.	S. GUNEOAT TIoGA,
North West [Providence] Channel, May 20, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report I am en route for Key West for sup-
plies, via Stirrup Cays, the Isaacs, and Bemini, six or seven wceks out
in all. Cruising from Bemini to the Gingerbread Ground, Stirrup Cay,
North West Cut [Channel a?], South West End [Point~?] of Bahama, Man-
zanilla [Matanilla?] Reef, Walker Cay, oft the Elbow and between them,
to along north end of Eleuthera to Cat Island and Exuma Sound, return-
ing to South Cays [Southeri Cay?], Abaco, Bahama, the Elbow, and
eastward.
	During the cruise boarded the English steamer Norseman, three-
masted propeller, from England, via Canaries; papers all regular for
Nassau. The master blustering, refusing to show his papers for a
moment (not quite long enough to commit himself). Chased and over-
hauled the English three-mnasted propeller Merriam, from Nassau for
England, loaded with cotton papers all right. On the 17th chased a
large side-wheel steamer, painted white, with one mast, running him
to the southeast at uiight, amid, as he had been steering N. N. E., took
the back track, thinking I must head him by daylight. Failing to dis-
cover him, but made another steamer standing to the eastward, over-
hauling this fellow fast, when within 4 or 5 miles of her broke all the
blower belts in succession (making two during chase). Gave up the
chase, as we could not get more than 31 poumids steaum. This making
the eighth blockade steamer we have chased.
	All sailing vessels now appear to be of very small class, going via
Moose IsLud and Lynyard Cay across the Little Bank, out at Walker
Cay. I heard at that island that five schooners amid sloops all came in
there in one day with cotton from the coast, probably from Mosquito
Inlet and Imidian River. I am confident but two, if any, steamers have
gone out to the south of New Providence, and thence following the
Exuma Cays to Long Island, thence across to I~agged Islamids, then
taking the Banks to the Gulf Streamn, for nothing has been seen
gomng out between Cat and Eleuthera islands, and no pilots left them

Page 200

200	OPERATIONS OF TI-JE CRUI~ERSTJNION.

	The large white steamer that had been seen passing South West
Point of Bahama is the lVm. L. Hughes, too fast for anything out here
except the Vanderbilt. She does not hesitate t~ leave Nassau in open
day. The steamer you chased near Nassau was the Emma; she
arrived there the following day.
	No news in Nassau of the privateers to the 18th. The Octorara has
been to the north end of Eleuthera the past several days.
	We shall require some overhauling at Key West and fit our new
boiler pump, etc.
	I wish to enqnire through you, sir, to the Navy Department, if our
pilot can not be included in the prize lists, he well deserving it. I beg
to report further that our former chief engineer, Mr. Latimer (now
north on the steamer Granite City, prize), and doing duty in this
steamer the past eight months in violation of his parole to certain
rebel officers or parties in the western United States. I was not aware
of this until lie had left us. Will you inform me, sir, what course to
pursue should he be ordered to rejoin this steamer ~
	May 21.In touching at South Keys [Southern Cay] yesterday heard
the good news of the Octorara taking a steamer, the Eagle, ~ List ont
from Nassan. It occurred in this manner: It appeared that the above
steamer and another, the Flora (the same that we chased), left port at
the same time, and on a wager about their run to Charleston or Wil-
mnington, the Flora taking the lead. During that night the Eagle, mak-
ing a steamer ahead and supposing it the Flora, ran alongside and
gave three cheers, under the impression they were beating the Flora,
and they were hailed by Captain Collins to heave to, which they did
not till fii~ed into and disabling him, shooting away a portion of his
wheels and a shot or two through him, requiring little repairs to pro-
ceed to Key West. Fortunately, no one was seriously injured aboard
the prize. I have given you this as I heard it at South Keys [Southern
Cay].
	I received a letter (of the 18th instant) from our consul at Nassau.
No news of importance; no privateers heard from or fitting out at that
port. The suspected steamer Merriam, or Marione, with four or five
ports of a side, I overhauled outside. She is a regular packet from
Nassau, or touches at Nassau from Aspinwall to England. There are
three running over that route.

KEY WEST, May 26.

	Sin: I have been compelled to appropriate one of the Vanderbilt
engineers till such time as we may fall in with her.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
A.	G. CLARY,

Commander
Acting Rear-Admiral CHAS. WILKES,	, U. AS~. Navy.
Commanding West India Squadron.



Report of 1aptain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Mohican,
transmitting letter from Messrs. Henry Forster ~ Co., of Pernambuco,
Brazil, giving information of the C. S. steamers Alabama and Florida.

U. S. S. MoIIICAN,
Pernambuco, ~May 20, 1868.
	Sin:	I herewith enclose you communications received from an Ameri-
can mercantile house at Pernambuco. These communications came b

Page 201

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	201

the French mail to St. Yinceiit after my letter was mailed, my anchor
nearly up and all ready to leave, and too late to get them in the return
mail. They differ a little from the information thaAl received from the
captain of the French mail steamer. She was in quarantine, and these
mistakes occurred in the conversation and translation, which had to be
held at some distance, the wind blowing heavily at the time.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

[Enclosure.]

PERNAMBUCO, April 30, 1863.
	We take the liberty to address this to the commander of any Amer-
ican man-ofwar at St. Vincent to notify hint that on the 21st instant
the Alabama was anchored at Fernando (IC Koronha, where she had
destroyed three ships, the Aora, Lovisa Hatch, Charles lull, and whal-
ers Kingfisher, Lafayette, and Kate Gory. The president of this province
has sent a steamer to recall the commander of the island and order
the Alabama away, but they have no power sufficient to compel her to
leave. We have reqnested our friend Mr. Deppemann, a merchant from
Bahia, to deliver this, if any United States ship is at St. Vincent, and
if we are strangers to you, he, or nyone on the steamer from this
[place], will k~ow the character of
Your countrymen, and obedient servants,
IIENiIY FORSTER &#38; (Do.
	P.	S.Sixty-one of the men and 40 still at the island to come by
steamer.
	P.	S.May 1.The French transport Belmontico [Bremontier], from
Marseilles for Caledonia, arrived here to-da.y to land I (; more men, com-
posing parts of the crews of the ship Oneida an(1 bark Henrietta,
burned by the Elorida in latitude 1~ 40 5., lon~,itmide 29~ 10 W., six
days ago. The Florida had also burned ~)reviously the ship Common-
wealth, and had also takeii the bark Lapwing, loaded with coal, and
fitted her out with guns, etc., to nse as a l)rivateer. The captain of the
French transport refused to receive the itien allu (led [to], but they were
forced on board of him by the Florida.
Your obedient servants,
HETWY FORSTER &#38; Co.



Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Nary, commanding U. S. S. ]Iiliohican,
from Pernambuco, Brazil, of the presence of five Confederate States
vessels in that vicinity.
U.	S. S. MOIIICIVN,
Pernambuco, May 20, 1863.
	SIR:	I have to inform the honorable Secretary of the Navy that I
arrived at this port this day and am taking in coal and shall be off in
chase as soon as possible. The Florida is ernising in this vicinity. The
Alabama and Virginia [GEorgia], formerly called the Japan, are at
Bahia. The Lapwing, a bark with S guns, an(l a brig called the Clar-
ence, with 6 guns, are also ernising on this coast. You will see tha

Page 202

202	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

this is quite a formidable fleet for inc to encounter, but the Departmellt
may rest assured that we will do our duty, and it will not be mauy
days before we have a battle. 1 would earnestly i~rge that more vessels
be sent to this coast. I herewith enclose you a letter from our consul
at this port.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	                                  0. S. GLISSON,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,		Capt ut, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Mohi can,
transmitting information received from the U. S. consul at Pernambuco,
Brazil, regarding captures made by the 0. 5. stea ers Alabama and
Florida.
U. S. S. MOITICAN,
Pernambuco, May 21, 1863.
	SIR: I herewith enclose you several communications from our con-
sul at this place in relatioii to the captured vessels. My stay here has
been only one day, and we have worked all night to get our coal in so
as to be off as soon as possible. I have given you all the information
that I have been able to collect in so short a time.
	A vessel has this moment arrived from Bahia and informed me that
the Alabarn~m and Virginia [Georgia] h~d sailed from that port to join
the Florida at sea, aiid that in future they wilI.sail in squadron, so the
honorable Secretary will see the importance of having more vessels on
this coast. I shall continue to cruise on this coast s long as the
l)iratical vessels continue here, oi until I capture them. If the I)epart-
ment send me any dispatches they had better be directed to Bahia,
as it is more central than Rio. A mail arrives from England monthly,
also one from France, so that we have a mail every two weeks.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
		0.	5. GLISSON,
			Captain, U. S. Navy.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
[Endorsement.]

	Write to him to follow them anywhere. Must send other vessels,
though Vanderbilt is, I think, on her way there by this.
	W[ELLES].
[Enclosures.]

U. S. CONSULATE,
Pernambuco, May 20, 18G2.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of ~OUV5 of this
date, and much regret that illness prevents me from accepting your
invitation to visit you on board the ]lilohican.
	1 have furnished Dr. Corson with some rongh notes in regard to the
recent captures of the Alabama, and have req nested Mr. l)aniel NI. Ito]-
lins, of the American firm of Henry Forster &#38; Co., to visit you iii my
stead. Mr. Rollins is well acquainted with the recent events and will
cheerfully give you the requisite information

Page 203

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	203

	The Florida arrived at this port on the 8th instant and, in spite of
my earnest protest, was permitted to enter the port. At first l)ermis-
sion was only given for a stay of twenty-four honrs, b~t the president of
this province afterwards made a further concession of three days longer
stay to the Florida. She left on the afternoon of the 12th instant, and
on the 18th boarded a Hanoveriar vessel about 15 miles from this port.
	1 heartily wish you all snccess in your efforts to cal)tnre these nirat-
ical vessels.
I have the honor to be, yonr most obedient servant,
THOMAS ADANSoN, Jr.,
U.	S. Consul.
	Captain 0. S. GLISSON,
Commander, U. S. S. ]lfohican.


Statement of Thomas F. Lambert, late master of the schooner Kingfisher.

	Thomas F. Lambert, late master of the schooner Kingfisher, states
that on the 23d of March last, then in latitude 10 20 N., longitude. 260
30 W., at 2 oclock p. in., a sail was discovered making toward the
Kingfisher; discovered it was a steamer with the American flag dying
apparently an American man-of-war. At 6:30 it was within half mile
of us; sent a boat alongside. The officer in charge told the captain
his vessel was a prize to the Confederate steamer Alabama; ordered
him to go on board the steamer and he did so, showing his papers, and
was informed he was a prize. Was permitted to return to the steamer
for his clothes. A lieutenant (Kell) was ordered to take such supplies
from the schooner as they might need, and to dispose of her in the usual
manner. After taking 9 barrels of beef and pork and some flour and
such other things as they fancied, the schooner was set on fire. The
crew was taken on board the Alabama. They were placed in irons, and
the Alabama proceeded on her cruise.
	On the 25th of March two more American vessels were captnred,
named as follows: the Nora and Charles Hill, both of I3oston; the
JYora bound from Liverpool to Calcutta, the Charles Hill from Liver-
pool to Montevideo, both laden with salt. On the 26th of March both
vessels were destroyed by fire latitude 1~ 23 N., longitude 260 30 W.
	April 4, the Alabama captured the Louisa Hatch (ship), of Maine; lati-
tude 30 5. and longitude 26~ W., bound from Cardiff to Point de Galle,
for P. and 0. [Peninsular and Oriental?] steamers. The captain of the
Louisa Hatch showed to the commander of the Alabama the certificate
of the French consul at Cardiff certifying that the coal was the property
of French subjects. He paid no attention to this certificate, and a prize
crew was placed on board the Louisa Hatch, and she was ordered to follow
the Alabama. This she did. They arrived at Fernando de Koronha on
the 10th of April, when both anchored within a mile of the land. The
prisoners were set to work transferring coal from the Louisa Hatch to
the A labama. This occupied about five days. On the 15th of April two
whalers hove in sight and laid to off the island. The captains came
on shore in their boats. These vessels were the bark Lafayette, of New
Redford, and the brig Kate Cory, of Westport. Upon their arrival
on shore they were informed by the commandant of the island that the
vessel in port was the Confederate steamer Alabama. The Alabama
had the American flag trailing over the quarter. The Alabama got u

Page 204

204	OPERATIONS OP TIlE CRUISERSUNION.

steam and captured the whalers, the captains being on shore. One
(the Lafayette) was immediately burned; the Kate Gory was towed into
the anchorage. On the 17th of April the brig Kate Gory and the ship
Louisa Hatch were put under sail and taken about 4 miles from the
laud, and there burned. The Alabama laid in the harbor of Fernando
de Koronha about twelve (lays, with the exception of the time spent in
capturing the whalers outside.
	The above information was embraced in the statement of Thos. F.
Lambert, captain of the Kingfisher, who wa~ on board the Alabama at
the time of its occurrence. Captain Lambert avid 108 other prisoners
from vessels captured by the Alubama were landed on Fernando de
Koronha on 17th of April, and left there the 21st, arriving here on the
26th.
TIIOMAS ABAMSON, Jr.,
U.	&#38; Gonsul.

Statement of George F. Brown, late master of the b rk Henrietta.

	American bark Ilenrietta, George F. Brown, master, Thomas Whit-
ridoe of iWOtimore United States of America, owner, bound for Rio
~	, (~
(IC Janeiro with a cargo of 3 10~) whole and 300 half barrels of flour,
604) kegs of lard, and 75 boxes of candles.
	We sailed from Baltimore on the 20th day of March, 1863, notl oiag
of note occurring until the 23(1 of April, when, at 3 oclock p. in., we
made a sail right astern, which e~ inc up to us very fast, and on nearer
approach ~proved to be a ~erew propeller, bark ri~ed with an Ameri-
can ensign flying forward. The ~teainer ran alongside of us and
ordered us to heave our vessel to, she having at the same time her
starboard guns in readiness. We :ere then boarded by two boats,
fully manned, and each man well armed. I was asked where from and
where boniid, and if my vessel was a United State~ vessi. having
answered the above questions, I was told by the officer in conunaiul of
the boats that the bark life ~rietta, of Baltimore, was a p1ize to the Con-
federate steamer Florida. My officers ~nd crew were then hurried on
board the steamer Florida; my papers and mail were sent on board
the steamer Florida by the same boat. Myself and passengers were
allowed to remain on board the Henrietta, and were told by the officer
that we could remain on board the Henrietta that night.
	After our papers had been received on board the steamer Florida
another boat was sent off with orders that we were to proceed imine-
(hiately on board the steamer as the bark would at once be set on fire.
After our arrival on board the steamer I was introduced to the captain
of the Florida, who said, How are you, captainl It is hard, l)llt I
have to obey ~ at the same time, pointing over the starboard
quarter of the steamer, said, 1)ont she burn prettyl She belongs to
Mr. Whitridge; lie is a great Union mn~n, to which II replied, Yes.
After all the bustle was over I was informed by one of the officers
that their room was mine to eat, sleep, and sit in; that 10 oclock was
the hour for all lights to be put out.
	Next morning, the 24th day of April, there were two sails in sight,
and also the remains of the Henrietta still burning. The first sail
proved to be a British bark (name unknown), from Buenos Ayres,
bound to Liverpool, l~ngland. She was ordered by the Florida to
heave to, and one of the steamers boats was sent en board, avid fully
manned; the particulars of the occurrence are unknown to inc

Page 205

OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSUNION.	205

	The Florida then steamed for the remains of the Henrietta, but at
the same time making for the nearest sail, which proved to be the
American ship Oneida, Potter, master, of New BeWord, from Shang-
hai for New York. She was ordered by the Florida to heave to, and
boats were sent on board, which shortly returued with the captain and
the crew of the ship Oneida. In one hour and a half the ship was on
lire, and the officers of the Florida, being fully satisfied that she was
on tire fore and aft, steamed for the next vessel iii sight, which proved
to be the French bark Bremontier, Destremeaux, master, of and from
Bordeaux, bonud to New Caledonia. She was ordered to heave to, and
a boat from the steamer was sent on board the French bark with Cap-
tain Potter, m~ self, and one of my crew who understood the French
language. To the best of my knowledge, the following conversation
took place: The captain of the French bark was asked if he could take
any prisone1s on board of his vessel, to be transferred to some other
vessel or landed on the coast of Brazil, to which the captain of the
French bark replied that he could take 6 persons, provided the
steamer would send provisions for that uninber. In the place of 0,15
persons were sent on board of the French bark, with about 60 pounds
of beef. 6 tins of crackers, and some tea. ~f he following are the names
of the persons sent on board the French bark, viz: George F. l3rown,
late master of the Henrietta; Thomas Sagerman, first mate of the lien-
rietta;  Ennesly, second mate of the flenrietta, Peter Brown,
James F. Brown, seamen, of the Henrietta; Mrs. Flora [Flories?] aimd
three children, passengers by the late henrietta; Mrs. Roberts, passen-
gel by the late,Henrietta; Mrs. Dc Mass, passenger by the late Henri-
etta; Captain Potter, late master of the Oneida, and three seamen,
names unknown to me.
	The remainder of the crews of the Henrietta and Oneida, with other
prisoners, we left on board of the Florida, all in irons. Nothing worthy
of note happened on board the French bark. We arrived in the outer
roads of Pernambuco in the night of the 30th day of April, and on the
morning of the 1st of May we were landed in Pernambaco. While on
board the Florida, myself, officers, amid passengers received the best of
treatment, being allowed a perfect freedom and use of the officers
roomn, the lady passenger and her three children being accommodated
in the captains cabin. Neither the captain nor any of the officers of
the Florida would hold any communication with us of interest or
worthy of note.
	I do solemnly swear the above statement is true, to the best of my
knowledge and belief.
GEORGE F. BROWN,
Late Master of the Bark henrietta, of Baltimore.

	Sworn to and subscribed befr~re me, the nndersigned, consul of the
United States, at Pernambuco, this 2d day of May, A. D. 1863, and of
the independence of the United States th~ eighty-seventh.
THOMAS APANSON, Jr.,
U.	~ Consul.


Statement of Jesse P. Potter, late master of the ship Oneida, of New Bedford, Mass.


	Friday, 24th April, 18G3.Latitude, 10 40 S.; longitude, 290 10 W.
Throughout the twenty-four ~hours light breezes from a S. E. quarter.
At 9 a. m. saw a suspicious-looking bark-rigged steamer steering acros

Page 206

206	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

our bow. After evening, about 2 miles to leeward, he hoisted the Amer-
ican flag, which we answered, when he hauled up for us under a full
head of steam. A boat was sent on board, the officer and crew of which
were strongly armed. I was asked where from and bound to, and if the
ship was a United States Ship. On my answering, he replied, Well,
captain, you are a prize to the Florida. Our flag was hauled down, a
mali sent to the wheel, an I was ordered to give up my papers, both
the ships and private. I was then ordered out of my ship the first man,
only being allowed to take about $10 or $15 worth of clothing, and
being positively refused the privilege of a trunk. My clothing was
packed, what I did save, by the steward, after 1 was ordered out of my
ship. This occurred about 10:30 a. in., and at high noon our ship was
on fire fore and aft. At that time the JAloridc set all sail and made all
steam in chase of a French bark which was in sight when we were cap-
tured, and came up with him at 6 p. in., when we were transferred to
him, the captain consenting to take us to Pernambuco. Although 6
were agreed ul)on, 15 were forced on board, with only 60 pounds of
beef and 6 tins of crackers.
	Friday, 1st illay.Last evening arrived and anchored in Pernambuco
roads. This morning canie off shore. The captain of the French ves-
sel made a claim on me of 400 francs for myself and 2 mates, b )ard
and detention, in coming to port, which I had to draw on my owners
for, as we were not recognized by the consul soon enough for the French
captain to get away that day. Captain Brown, of the bark Henrietta,
his 2 officers and 8 passengers, with 1 man from the ship Common-
wealth, myself; and 2 officers, comprising 15, were all that were lauded
at Pernantbuco.
	The above are extracts taken from my private journal, which I
declare upon my solemn oath to be strictly true in every sense.
JESSE F. POTTER,
Late Master of AS~hip Oneida, ~j. New Bedford, Mass.



Statement of Franklin Percival, late master ~f the ship Charles Hill.

	On this 27th (lay of April, A. D. 1863, before me, the undersigned,
consul of the United States of America lbr Pernamnbuco and the
dependencies thereof, personally appeared Franklin Percival, late
master of the ship Charles Hilt, whb, being by me duly sworn accord-
ing to law, do th depose and state as follows:
	The ship Charles Hill, of Boston, of which I was master, was a vessel
of 699 tons registered measnreruent. She was owned by Charles II.
Tripp and others, of Boston, and was built at Newburyport in the year
1850. 1 sailed from Liverpool in command of the said ship on the 12th
day of February last past, bound for Montevideo. The ships cargo
~~onsisted of 699 toiis of salt, shipped by H. B. Falk, of Liverpool, and
consigned to Green, Montevideo. My crew on leaving ILiverpodi con-
sisted of 17 persons, officers and seamen. One of the seamen, viz,
John Ityan, fell from aloft and died about nine days after leaving
Liverpool; besides this, nothing of importance occurred until the 25th
day of March last past. On that day, being then in latitude 10 23 N.
and longitude 260 30 W., at 2 oclock p. m. a steamship was discovered
making toward us. At this time the ship Nora, of Boston, was near
us; we knew her, having exchanged signals the previous day. Abou

Page 207

OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSUNION.	207

4:30 oclock p. m. the steamship was between the ship Charles Hill and
the ship Nora, and only about a quarter of a mile distant from either.
We had previously discovered that it was an arm~d vessel, and now,
when near us, he ran up the American ensign, and at the same time] I
set my colors. He then sent a boat to my ship in charge of a masters
mate, whose name I afterwards learned was Fullam. This person
informed me that my ship was a prize to the Confederate steamship
Alabama, and ordered inc to report myself, with my papers, on board
that vessel. On my arrival on board of the Alabama I was shown to
the cabin and exhibited my papers to Captain Semmes. Captain
Semmes said to me, I suppose that you know enough of the rules of
warfare to know that you are a prize. My papers showed that one-
third of the freight money had been paid in advance. The captains
clerk asked if I had any of the freight money on board, to which I
answered in the negative. He then asked me if I really believed the
cargo to be British property. 1 told him that I had no doubt that it
was. He wrote dowim his questions and my answers, amid administered
to me an oath, in which I declared my answers to be true to the best of
my knowledge and belief, and to which I subscribed my name. I was
then permitted to return to my ship, where I remained during the
night. On the morning of the 26th of March I was sent on board the
Alabama, with my trunk, which was at once searched. During that
and the following day the ships crew, the small stores, and about 10
tons of coal were taken on board the Alabama from my ship. On the
evening of the 27th of March, at about 8 oclock, my ship was set on
fire by order of Captain Semines, the order being given in my hearing.
About this time I saw that the ship Nora was also on fire. From this
time we were prisoners on board the Alabama.
	Oim the 4th day of April the Alabama captured the ship Louisa Hatch.
A prize crew was put on board of her, and she sailed in company with
the Alabama toward the island of Fernando de Noronha, where we
arrived on the 10th instant, and both of the vessels were anchored
within a mile of the land. A part of the prisoners were then employed
in taking coal from the Louisa Hatch to the Alabama. This occupied
about four days. On the 15th instant two whaling vessels hove in
sight and laid off the island, the captains of which came on shore in
their boats for provisions. Upon this, Captain Semmes weighed anchor
in the Alabama and stood out under steam and captured both vessels
within two hours after leaving the anchorage and at a distance of to
the best of my judgment, about 3 miles from the land. One of the ves-
sels was immediately set on fire, the other, namely, the brig Kate
Gory, was towed by the Alabama to the anchorage within 1 mile of the
land. On the 16th all the prisoners and their baggage were searched,
and were then sent on board the brig Kate Gory and were told that they
would be allowed to go whither they might choose. We had not been
on board more than two hours when the captains clerk caine on board
and gave us the alternative of signing a parole, promising not to take
up arms against the Confederate States umiless first regularly exchanged,
or to go back on board the Alabama. All signed the parole, and then
were ordered on shore with their baggage. The prisoners, to the num-
ber of about 109 persons, went to time house of the commandaute of the
island, where we were provided for. On the 17th of the present month
the ship Louisa Hatch and brig Kate Gory were put under sail and
taken to the distance of about 4 miles from the land and set on fire.
This occurred in the evenin ~, and I can not speak positively as to the
distance. Both vessels continued burning through the night, and nex

Page 208

208	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

morning nothing was seen of them. On the 21st instant the crews of
the ships Charles lull, Nora, Lonisa hatch, and schooner Kingfisher, as
well as the masters of said vessels, were put ~n board the Brazilian
schooner Tergipano, for the purpose, as we were told, of being sent to
Pernambuco. The order to go on board this vessel came through a
Portuguese sailor, who acted as interpreter, and who said it was the
order of the commandante of Fernando de Noronha. About 6 oclock
p. in. of the 21st instant we set sail and proceeded in the said schooner
Terq~pano for Peinain buco, where we arrived on the 26th of the present
month, after a voyage necessarily attended with the greatest discom-
forts, as we were 61 in number and the schooner had no conveniences
for carrying so many persons, being only 61 tons measurement. The
congul of the United States residing at Pernambuco came on hoard the
schooner soon after our arrival and at once accorded his protection
And further this deponent said not.
FRANKLIN PERCIVAL.



Report of Commander Collins, U. S. Navy, eonnnanding U. S. S. Octorara,
of the capt are ~f the British steamer Eagle.
U.	S. S. OCTORARA,

Key West, May 22, 18GB.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that on the 18th instant, at 9 p. in.,
in Iatilti(le about 250 119 N., longitude about 770 20 W., we seized the
English s~eanier Eagle, Peter Capper, master, from Nassau, New Provi
deuce, ostensibly bound to St. John, New Brunswick, with a cargo of
assorted merchandise.
	She is an iron paddle-wheel, schooner-rigged steamer, 169 feet long,
16 feet wide, with a draft of 6 feet, and 147QJ~- tons burden. I brought
her to this place for adjudication, on the grounds of her having no
P~l)CV5 but a bill of health an(l register, of her declining to heave to
till we had disabled her machinery, after repeated firing, by a shot
from one of the gulls of this vessel, and in consequence of her damaged
condition. At the time of her capture there were no other vessels in
sight, and the nearest land was about 12 miles (listant.
	John Grossenbacher, engineer, of Liverpool W. B. Berwick, in ate,
of Scotland; Alexander Pinkerton, engineer, of Scotland; George
White, engineer, of Liverpool, are her officers~ and John Watson, of
Abaco, is her Bahama pilot, and Edward Clifton of Wilmington, N. C
her Charleston nilot.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servaimt,
N.	COLIANS,
Commander.
	Hon. GWEoN WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander Trenehard, U. S. Nary, eommandin.q U. S. S. Rhode
Island, of intended departure from Cape Ilaitien, West Indies, in seareh
of the C. S. S. Florida (Oreto)
U.	S. S. HIIOPE J~LAND,
Cape Ilaitien, ]lIay 22, 1863.
	SIR: In consequence of the U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp having got
on shore, I have directed the U. S. S. Santiago de (Juba to receive o

Page 209

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	209

board and convey to you at St. Thomas the provisions directed by you
to be conveyed by the Shepherd Knapp to that place. This matter has
also detained this vessel here some days beyond t~e one fixed upon for
sailing.
	I deem it best, in conformity with your orders of the 13th instant, to
proceed with all dispatch to the neighborhood of Abaco to be on the
lookout for the Oreto, as, from information derived from the U. S. consul
at Nassau, she will revisit that place very shortly, and also intercept the
blockade runners.
	*	*	*	*	*	*

Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
STEPHEN D. TRENCHARD,
	Commander.
	Acting Itear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES, U. S. Navy,
Commanding West India Squadron.



Report of Commander Ransom, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. lifer-
cedita, of arrival at Cape Haitien, West Indies.

U.	S. S. MEROEDITA,
Cape Haitien Harbor, May 22, 1863.
	Sin:	I have the honor to report the arrival of this vessel, iindei my
command, at.this l)lace, pursuant to instructions* from the Depa~tmeut,
of which copies are herewith enclosed.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEG. M. RANSOM,
Commander.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron.



Report of Lieutenant-Commander Allen, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S
Oneida, of arrival at Pointe ~t Pitre, West Indies, with account of
cruise.
U.	S. STEAM SLOOP ONEIDA,
Pointe ~ Pitre, May 23, 1863.
	ADMIRAL: I have the honor to report my arrival at this place on the
evening of the 20th instant. I have filled lip with coal and shall pro-
ceed to:morrow morning to sea.
	1 communicated with the island of Sombiero on the evening of the
17th. Found two English barks oft the island loading with guano.
Time snpeiimmtendent of the island reports that no suspicious vessels have
been in sight.
	After leaving Sombrero I steamed icianrely around the island, between
it an(l Gnadeloupe. I saw no suspicious vessels in any of the ports.
Oft St. Martin I boarded the American whaling bark Rothschild, on a
crmiise. The captain had no news of importance to communicate. In
English harbor Antign~ a large Englis frigate was lying at anchor.
*Seep. 166.
	N W RYOL II	1

Page 210

210	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNIO~

	Your dispatch to Mr. Thionville, U. S. vice-consul at this place, was
(luly delivered. The brig Romance finished discharging to-day. The
ship Fai~Jicld has now on board 350 tons of coal. ~The rent of the depot
for coal amounts to $277.78, and the estimated amount for lighterage is
$875, making 1,152.78, which amount I have paid to Mr. Thionville,
t8king l)ropcr receipts. The actual amount of lighterage may be a
tiitle more or lcss than the estimated amount, and on my returu here I
will ~1djn8t the difference.
	It is reported ]a~me that a French vessel which arrived here some time
since was spoken by the Alabama oft the coast of Spain, but I have
not beemi able to trace the report to a reliable source.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WELD N. ALLEN,
	Lient. Comdr., U. S. Navy, Commanding U. S. S. Oneida.
Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES, U. S. Navy,
Commanding West india Squadron.



-Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Sqaadron, regarding the vessels of his command.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
St. Thomas, ]Ih~y 23, 1863.
	SIR; Th~ Wachnsett will leave this port to-morrow for Boston, agree-
ably to the orders of the Department, under command of Lieutenant-
Commander Flemii ig.
	On the receipt of your order, which reached me at this port, orders
were chspatched to the Sonoma Commander Stevens, to proceed to
New York for repairs. I suppose by this date she may be ou her way
home.
	The Waehnsett has been retained here sufficiently long to effect the
object I had in view, of which I informed the Departinemit, and l)ut a
stop to the contraband runners seeking this port to effect repairs and
coal 1)efore attempting to run the blockade. There have beeii no arrivals
hem-c of that clas of vessels since the capture of the i)olphin.
	This port, as I have some time since informed the Department, was
becoming a nest of these rebels. The contrabaiid agents have made
many complaints to the governor of this island, urging him to deiiy as
the privilege of this l)ort, but have found no favor, as lie has informed
me lie does not desire their presence. From them have emanated a
great many reports and letters intending to show the squadron, aiid
particularly myself, in an odious point of view. The imitercourse
between myself and the governor of Santa Cruz, as well as this island,
has been most friendly, and a perfect understanding prevails on all
the poluts which could tend to disturb our relatiomis. My correspond-
ence with the governor, which has been forwarded to the Department,
will give you the whole in detail.
	I %nnd it impossible, coiisistent with the duties f the squadron, to
arran oe it so tha.t Commatider Stevens should take the Waehusett home
on tRiC arrival of the Juniata. On the receptiomi of the orders to send the
Sonoma home for repairs, I concluded that the Department intended
that Commander Stevens should return in her. Both the Sonoma and
Waehusett will, I hope, soon rejoin me, or others be sent in their stead

Page 211

OPERATIONS ON THU CRUISERSUNION.	211

The Alabama is now undergoing repairs here. Her lever beam,
which is badly cracked, is to be stra ped and made serviceable at a
very moderate expense. Itwill be made stronger tl!tn it was originally.
it could. not be trusted lonjer; every day it opened more, and I felt
much anxiety lest it might give way, and thus damage the other parts
of the machinery and probably smash the whole.
I regret very much the nonarrival of my dispatches. The acting
consul-general has written me that he has a number, and that he did
not forward them by the British steamer in consequence of the high rate
of postage charged. I was In hopes I should have received them by
the Spanish steamer due yesterday, but she has not arrived and I can
not wait longer.
S

The (Jenebok will, I think, hold sufficient coal for our use and relieve
us from the demurrage vessels might be subject to. She has been
fitted for the service and, though smaller than I could wish, she will
answer as a deposit for coal, provisions, and stores for the squadron.
The repairs on the Alabama will probably require some three weeks.
The OneWa has been sent to keep a watch over Martinique and will
remain in the vicinity of the French and English islands.
I enclose herewith a dia~ani of the tubes of the Waekusetts boilers1
as it will give the Department a better idea than any description
could give of them. it is almost impossible for me to even suggest the
cause, tnt great defect in the iron in some of the boxes is quite appar-
ent. They have all been carefully watched and attended to. Those
marked are the ones which have been plugged. I can not well give
you an idea how much trouble, anxiety, and vexation they have caused
me and the engineer, Mr. Penwlleton, who has been very assiduous in
the performance of his duties. You will coincide with me in opinion
that she has been run as long as it was possible to do with safety to
the engineers and firemen. I have given them strict orders not to use
any undue pressure on their way home, and to depend on and use the
sails whenever opportunity offers. Lu consequence ol the state of the
Waekusett, I have given orders, in case of accident or undue delay in
reaching Boston, to make for Philadelphia or New York. Lieutenant.
Oommander fleming will, however, state to you the reasons in case of
his so doing, which the Department will be the judge ot
I am, very respeotftully, your obedient servant,
	Acting Rear-Admiral,	OnuLuS WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron.
lion. GnxrnoN WELLES,
Secretary of the ZQavy.


Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. &#38; Navy, commanding West
India Squadron to Lieutenant-Commander Fleming. U. S. Navy, oem-
sanding U. &#38; .k Wachusett, to proceed to Boston, Mass.,for repairs
vesseL
FLAG-STEmS YMWEKEILT,
&#38; Thomas, May 28,1868.
Sn: You will proceed with the Waehusett to Boston, when, on your
arrival, you will report to the honorable Secretary of the Navy. You
will pass from this port direct to the island of Bermuda, where you
will communicate with our consul, Mr. Allen, remaining off there such
time as may be advisable after hearing from him

Page 212

212	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	It is desirable on your way to Boston that you should employ your
steam power as little as possible, making use of your sails, reserving it
for any emergency of chase or other necessity.~ 
	Should you find any difficulty in reaching the port of Boston, you
will make New York or Philadelphia, and report the cause of your
being obliged to seek either of those iorts to the Department.
	The condition of the starboard boiler is such as to require the most
careful management of the engines, when you have steam on, to prevent
accident.
	On your arrival you will conform to the rules and regulations of the
servic&#38; ~, and be prepared to undergo the usual inspection required of
vessels returning from a cruise.
	Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Commanding Edward Cavendy is
ordered to take passage with you.
	Any men whose terms of service have expired, and who have served
three years, you will report for honorable discharges to the Secretary
of the Navy, if their conduct shall have entitled them to such
discharges.
	Wishing you a safe and speedy passage,
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,

	~Acting Rear-Admircd,] Commanding West India Squadron.
Lieutenant-Commander CHAS. E. FLEM1NG~ U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Wachusett.



Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Messrs. Secor d~ Co., announcing
the readiness of the U. S. ship mo for duty as convoy.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, ray 23, 1863.

	GENTLEMEN:	The U. S. ship mo, at New York, will be ready for
orders early next week, and the Department desires to be informed
when your vessel will be ready for sea, and which the mo is to convoy.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the ?Vavy.
Messrs. SECOR &#38; Co.,
Jersey City, N. J.



Letter from the Secretary ~f the Navy to a committee of the Boston board
of trade expressmng mnability to comply with the request for increased
protectioi~ to Boston harbor.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, May 23, 1863.

	GENTLEMEN: Your communication of May 15th, in reference to the
defenses of the harbor of Boston, and asking that a United States
naval vessel be ordered to that port to protect especially the entrance
through Broad Souml, also suggesting that the frigate Sabine be traits-
ferred to that harbor, has been received.
	While sharing equally, at least, with the committee the responsibility
of results that might be caused by any omission or seeming omission
to take proper precautions to protect Boston and other places omi ou

Page 213

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	213


coast, it would be impossible, as the committee must be aware, to station
a naval vessel at every important point that is exposed, to guard
against remote but possible contingencies. No pla~e in New England
is so well protected as Boston at this time, and no place is more entitled
to protection, tor the iiuober of peopl 11(1 the mount of property
loero (:Ohceiltrated exceeds all others.
	If Congress. out of abnodaiit ~ecantio1~ were to direct or authorIze
a squadron to guard the coast from Eastport to the capes of Delaware,
the Navy 1)epartnient woui(l carry into effect its requirements, but no
estimate or appropriations, have been m de for such a pnrpose. Boston
has had, and will continne to have, the supervisory care of this Depart-
ment as fn!ly, to say the least, as any ph ee on our coast, although the
defenses of the harbor belong more appropriately, j)erhaps, to another
I)epartinent of the Government.
	It is assumed by the committee that the steamer Roanolce is set apart
for the defense of the harbor of New York. There is no authority for
511(1 assumption. That Vc~-SCi is being l)relvlred for service at New
York, as vessels are being l)repaltd at Boston, and may thus inciden-
tally furnish security which other less favored places do riot er~joy, but
the Roanoke has not been assigned for any such duty as indicated in
your communication.
	The I)epartmnent has ordered an armament to be placed on the Ohio,
as w~s requested, and directed in anticipation of danger that a vessel
be put in prel)aration and assigned for the delbuse of Boston and New
England. Still we ma; have disaster, notwithstanding all our precau-
tion s, and they might occur were we to withdraw several vessels from
active blockade duty and station them on the eastern coast.
	The Sabine is one of the fastest sailing vessels in the service, and as
soon as a crew can he procured will be dispatched on a cruise, and can
not, therefore, be ordered to Boston, as suggested. It would afford the
l)epartment gratification to comply wifli all time suggestions of the
committee were it possible to do so and not neglect the general duties
(levolving upon it in the prosecution of the war.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
ASecretary of the Navy.
	Messrs. E. S. TOBBY,
II.	B. FORBES,
S~ML 11. WALLEY,
harbor J)cfense Committee of Boston,
Boston Board of Trade, Boston, Mass.



Instructions of Actin0 Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding
West India Squadron, to Commander Nichols, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. S. Alabama, relative to cruising.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
St. Thomas, May [23], 1863.
	Sin: You will expedite the repairs on the machinery of tIme Alabama
as much as possible. As 50(R as you are ready, and simall have taken in
all the provisions, stores, and coal you mleed, you will repair to sea and
proceed to the west emid of the island of Puerto Rico, by either the
north or south side, and communicate with one or other of the port

Page 214

214	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

near the Mona Passage for information. Returning you will pass
along the oj)poSite coast of Puerto Rico, and from thence visit all the
islands in the Windwou7d group until you fall i~ with the Oneida. Ii
enclose a copy of Lieutenant-Commander Allciis orders, which will
convey to you my wishes in regard to cruising in this group.
	You are at liberty to visit this port either for coal or provisions, and
for the purpose of obtaining information. You will keel) ifiC constantly
advised of your movements and of any events of interest that may be
passii ig.
	Communications directed to our coiisul here will be sure to reach
rae, and y~n may hear from me through him.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[CHARLES WILKES,]
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.

	Commander E. T. NICHOLS,

Commanding Steamer Alabama, West India Squadron.


Further instructions of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U: S. Nary, com-
manding West india Squadron, to Commander Nichols, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. A labama.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
St. Thomas, May 24, 1868.
	Sin: On the arrival of the Shepherd Knapp with stores and provisions
you will fillup your requisitions out of her. The balance of the stores,
etc on hoard of that vessel will be discharged into the Gcmsbok.
	I enclose ordeis for Acting Volunteer Lieuteiiammt Commanding
Eytinge. You will direct him to prepare for sea at once and sail
a greeal)ly to his ii instructions.
	In the event of the arrival here before you leave of an officer to
command the Oneida, you will direct him to lose no time in joining his
vessel, and when in command to be governed by the orders given to
Lieutenant-Coi umander Allen.
IL am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[ChARLES WILKES,]
	Acting Rear-Admiral~ Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander E. T. NICHOLS, U. Si Navy,
Commanding Steamer Alabama, West India #Squadron.


Report of A eting Rear-Admiral Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding Pac~flc
iSquatlron, ~f return, to Panama, New Granada, ({fter four mouths cruise
in the Southern Pacific.
U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Panama, May 25, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my arrival at Panama on the 21st
instant, after an absence of upward of four months, iu which we have
visited the ports of Valparaiso, Coquimbo, Cobija, Arica, Pisco, Chin-
cha Islands, Callao, and Payta.
	The appearance of this ship at these several places nas ha(l the effect
of showing that we still have a force in this ocean, which was doubted
by many in consequence of the few oppomtunities there have been to
employ a vessel on this service

Page 215

OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSUNION.	215

	I have already sent the Department a detailed account of the several
places we have visited.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, 
CIJAS. H. BELL,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of thc Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding Pac~flc
Squadron, relative to the insufficiency of his command for the protection
of the Pacific coast.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LM~CASTER,
Panama, May 25, 1863.
	SIR: On my arrival at this place 1 receive(l a letter from Commander
Stanly, enclosing a report oii the steam boilers of the Narragansett, a
copy of which I have sent to the Bureau of Construction, etc. it is
most unfortunate at this time that the ships of my squadroim are giving
out, one after another, in consequence of having been so long and so
actively employed. Several of them have received, fiom ti tue to tune,
telnl)ora.ry repairs only, until this course will no longer answer. 1 was
eonIl)eliett to send first the (Jyane and afterwards the Saranac to San
Francisco, urging the necessity of completing the necessary repairs as
soon as l)ossible, but I have received a letter from Captain Seiftidge,
commandant of time navy yar(l at Mare Island, Cal., informing metimat
the (Jyane only is under repair and that the Saranac, the vessel whose
services are most required, is kept at San Francisco as a protection to
that city. I was in hopes that the Saginaw would have been added to my
squadroim, as we require a vessel of that class to cruise between Pam ma
and the southermi coa.st of Mexico. There are a number of small har-
bors in Central America where a steam privateer could be prepared,
make a dash at one of our mail and treasure ships, and, if successful,
break up our communications between San Francisco amid Panama for
weeks before I could hear of it.
	The only available force I have at present is the St. Mary~s, which is
kept here as a guard ship for the protection of the Panama Itai]road;
the Narrayan~ett, now engaged in looking out for our mail steamers at
Acapulco and Mauzanillo, amid the I1a~ship.
	it was my intention, as soon as the Saranac was repaired, to send her
again to Acapulco, and the Narragansett to cruise along the coast of
Central America, but, from causes already explained, this cami not be
done, and this long line of coast must be left ummprotected.
	1 have received a letter from lion. Thonmas ii. Clay, U. S. mimmister
resident at Nicaragua, urging the necessity of sen ding a vessel to the
port of Realejo in consequence of the unsettled state of that country,
but I have no vessel to spare for that purpose.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully,
CHAS. H. BELL,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 216

216 OPERATIONS OF THE OEUISERSURION.
iaetruotseaa of the Seer of the Navy to Aot*y Mater WIW....,
IT. &#38; Navy, eouwm.ading U. &#38; sUp Iso, rela#ve to envoy of stainer
Aqulia.
Nivy DEnnTnNT, May *6,1868.
Sm:	Messrs. Secor&#38; Co, of Jersey City the bbfldersof the ironclad
sterner Oasnekej which is to be sent to tke Pacific coast in detached
pieces b7 the ship Aquila, reports that the Aquila will be ready to sail
at my time after the 28th instant
	The U. S. ship I.., under your command, will convoy the Aquil.
across the line and well into the southeast trades, and then return to
the vicinity of the equator in the track of homeward-bound ships,
where shewill cruise until it is neceSsary for her to return to New York
for provisions.
	You will have ap interview with Messrs. Secor &#38; Co., ad make
arrangements with the captain of the Aqulla as to sure methods of
keeping company and exchanging signals.
	Very respectfully, etc.,	Gmiox Wuars

Acting Master JAne M. WiLLIAMs, ~u,
Oousesasdiusg U. &#38; Skip Iso, New York


Report of Captain Gliusos, U. S. Navy, eornsasdtsg U. &#38; S. Jfokioas,
of cruise in Brasilia waters is aearokof Confederate cruisers, aeeouu-
panied by letter from U. &#38; consul at Pernarabuco, BrasiL
U. 5.5. Momon,
		RaM., May *6,1868.
Sm:	I have to report to the nonorable Secretary of the Navy that
I sailed from Pernambuco at 5 p. m. on the 21st of May. Having
received information from the consul that the Florida was at an
Island about 14 leagues from that place, I proceeded to that island,
but did not find her there as reported. Enclosed you have the consuls
note. I then stood don the coast under all steam and sail for Balala,
hoping that I should fall in with some oftheplratical vessels. I arrived
at Tp. m. on the 24th instant at Bahia and communicated with the
consul, and learned that the Alabama sailed from this place on the
morning of the 21st instant and thq Georgia on the night of the 3d
instant The Georgia was first called the Japan, secondly the Virginia,
andlastlr the Geor and is commanded by William L. Manry, for-
merly a lieutenant in the U. S. Navy. They qave out here previous to
sailing that they were bond to Chins, but this is not believed here.
	Since I left St Vincent I have touched at the island of Fernando de
Noronha, St Paul, Pernambuco, and Bahia, and every exertion was
made by me to reach these places as soon as possible. With all the
detections of coaling, etc., I was only fifteen days from St Vincent to
Bahia. I shall continue to cruise on the coast until I capture them or
receive further orders from the Department
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	0.5. Gussoir
	Hon. GWUoN wuza	Captain, U. &#38; kay.
Secretary o~ the Navy.
P. 8.The Georgia irbrig rigged, carries four 82s and one 8-inch
pivot~ and is an iron vesseL
	0.tG.

Page 217

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	217

[Enclosure.]

[MAY 21, 1863.]
	DEAR SIR: The Barou de Livramento has just ~ent me word that
the Florida was yesterday at the island of St. Aleixo, 14 leagues from
this, aud is supposed to be there at this moment.
In haste, yours, truly,
T.	ABANSON, JR.,
U.	S. (Jonsul.
	Captain GLISSON.



Letter of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral Bell, U. S.
Navy, commanding Pacific Sqna (Iron, forwarding information received
regarding the probable whereabouts of C. S. S. Alabama.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, May 27, 1863.

	SIR: Allan MeLane, esq., president of the Pacific Mail Steamship
Company, in a recent letter to the Department, colainunicates the fbi-
lowing extract, which he says is tP)ni a letter received from a reliable
person in London, dated May 8, 1863:

	The Alabama was in latitude 36~ S., longitude 440W., or south of Rio, on the 12th
or 18th of MarchI forget whichdoubtless bound round the Horn. She was afraid
of being seized l)y the l3ritisls authorities, I understand, as they regret very mach
her escape.

	I deem it prpper to communicate the above extract to you, although
information has been received from which it would appear more prob-
able that the Alabama was nearer 36~ north than south latitude at the
time mentioned.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHAS. TI. BELL,
Commanding Pacific Squadron, Panama, New ~Jranada.



Letter from the U. S. consul at Pernambuco, Brazil, to the Secretary of
State, reporting the violation of neutrality by the authorities of that port
in supplying coal to the C. S. S. Florida.

[Extract.]

CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Pernambuco, May 27, 1863.
	SIR: In my dispatch, under date of April 29, I had the honor to
inform you of a personal interview had with the president of this prov-
ince, anti of the frientlly disposition exj)rcsse(l by him on the part of
his Government toward the United States, the snbject of our conversa-
tion being the recent outrages committed at Fernando de Noronha by
the rel)el pirate A labama.
	It now becomes my duty to inform you of the action of the govern-
ment of this province in permitting the pirate Florida to enter this port,
which, in my opinion, is not in accordance with the friendly sentiments
then expressed by his Excellency the president

Page 218

218	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	On the 8th instant an armed steam vessel, bearing the flag of the
so-called Confederate States, appeared in the onter roads of this port
and made signal for a pilot. She was speedily~ecognized by her late
prisoners to be the Florida. I soon learned that the pilot declined
bringing her into the harbor until the permission of the anthorities was
obtained, and that an oflicer from the Florida had landed and was about
to ask permission of the president to bring her inside the reef, which
forms the inner harbor, for the purpose of obtaining coals, provisions,
etc., and, as he asserted, to repair the machinery of the vessel. I at
once hastened to the government palace, and, in a personal interview
with the presideilt, was told that applic~ tion had already been made for
permission to bring the Florida into tlii~ port, and was shown the letter
of her commander making the request.
	For the purpose of preventing this permission being accorded, I
bronght in review before his Excellency the president the recent acts
of the Aiabcma at Fernando de Noronha, of which I have already
informed the Department of State, reiniiiding him of those acts, which
he ha(l in his own official communications to me styled violations of
the neutrality and sovereign rights of Brazil, were sufficient to deprive
any vessel wearing a similar flag of the belligerent character claimed
by the commander of the Florida. I en(leavored to show to him that
those acts conclusively l)roved the piratical character which the Gov-
eminent of the United States had always contended to be the true
character of these vessels, sailing under a flag of no recognized nation-
ality.
	I further remarked that it was impossible that the Government of
the United States could look with indifference upon assistance rendered
to any vessel of this class, and that the fact of their being permitted to
enjoy the hospitalities of the ports of this Empire would, in my opinion,
be viewed iii an unfriendly light.
	In speaking of the acts of the Alabama at Fernando (le Noronha, I
referred to the fact that on the 10th of April she towed the ship Lout8a
latch into the port of the island, and (luring the five days following
was employed in taking from her a part of her cargo of coal, thus con-
summating an act of robbery in a port of the Empire; that on the lLithi
of April she left her anchorage to captnre two American vessels, touch-
ing at the island for supplies, the masters of which were at the time of
the capture on the island an(I had claimed the 1)rotection of the Bra-
zilian flag; that one of these vessels, viz, the bark Lafayette, was imine-
diately burned by the comnman(ler of the Alabama, and the other, viz,
the brig Kate Gory, was towed by the Alabama into the harbor or port
of the island; amid that finally, on the 17th of the same month, the ship
Loui8a Hatch and brig Kate Gory were taken to a short distance from
the land and burned by order of the commander of the Alabama, who
was still permitted to remain at the port of the island.
	I then endeavored to suggest, in a manner that could not be offensive,
the idea that, although the Government of the United States might
accept the disclaimer on the part of Brazil of any complicity with these
piratical acts on the ground that there was no force at Fernando to
prevent them, the admission of the consort of the Alabama, viz, the
Florid , to this port would weaken the effect of that disclaimer.
	Finally, I informed the president that I deemed it my duty to protest
most earnestly a~ainst the admission of the Florida into this port.
	The substance of tIme presidents reply was that he had not yet
decided as to what course he should pursue, but he evidently inclined t

Page 219

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	219

the opinion that he must accord certain belligerent rights to the Florida.
lie desired, however, that I should not make formal protest until after
he had informed me of his decision.
	On the same afternoon, at 20 minutes after 4 oclock, I received from
the president a communication informing me that the Florida was per-
mitted to enter the port for the purpose of obtaining coals and provisions
and to make rep irs to her machinery, for which purposes the space
of twenty-four hours was granted. * The same evening I pie-
l)ared a protest against this act, which was sent to the president the
following morning. * *
	On the evening of the 9th instant, while on the way from the consular
office to niy residence, I was overtaken (at 7 oclock p. in.) by a messenger
bearing two letters from the president, both date of that day. The one
informed me that permission had been granted to the Florida to remain
three days in this port in addition to the twenty-four hours first
granted. * * * The other was an answer to the protest of this con-
sulate against the permission to enter this port accorded to the Florida.
	In my answer to the latter I referred to the conversation of which I
have already given you the substance in this dispatch, and also to his
Excellencys own official letter of April 28, as proving that he pre-
viously held a different opinion as to the character of the Alabama from
that now entertained in regard to the Florida. I also declined further
(liscussion of the subject on the ground that it was not permitted to me
to discuss questions of international law. A copy of this letter is
respectfully submitted herewith.
	Under date of May 12 the president continues the correspondence,
but on that day I was taken ill with fever, of which fact the president
~Tas made aware, and the only answer made to this last oflicial letter
was a simple acknowledgment of its receipt.
	It is hardly necessary to enter into any further explanation of my
course, as it is by the corresl)ondence herewith enclosed that the
Department of State will probably judge mime. I may, however, be per-
initted to say that the care of 144 destitute seamen suddenly devolved
upon me; that it was with the greatest difficulty that I found umeans
1 o provide for the wants of all of them; that many disgraceful acts of
disorder on the part of these men caused the loss of valuable time in
trying to preserve the public peace, and that the depositions and
l)rotests of masters had to be attended to,in addition to which, corre-
spondeimce with tIme Department of State, with our minister at Rio rde]
Janeiro, and with individuals wimo had, or fancied they had, business
with this consulate, left but little time for reflection.
	if, therefore, in this correspondence I have in the hurry of the
mnonment dropped an unguam-ded or ihly chosen word, 1 can only say that
I have endeavored f~ ithfnlly to l)eJformn my (Imity, but the salary which
the Peol)he of the United States think is sufficient for the comisul at this
port will barely support me in the practice of the immost rigid economy,
and that I can not aftbrd to emuploy a clerk, because a competent person
would demand for his services the full amount of my salary.
	During the past month (excepting during mny illness) I have given,
on an average, sixteen hours per day to the public service, and when
the ~)hys!cal energies are exhausted with unremitting toil the mind can
hardly be in a fit condition to take up the consideration of delicate
subjects.
	Returning to time subject of tIme arrival of the Florida in this port, I
have to say that, as before mentioned, she entered the harbor on the
afternoon of the 8th instant, and at about ~ oclock reached her anchor

Page 220

220	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

age ground, almost immediately in front of this coasular office. Imme-
diately after dropping her anchor she sent on shore the officers and crew
of the brig Clarence, of Baltimore, 8 in numbfr, who at once claimed
the protection of this consulate. The master of the Clarence reported
that his vessel was captured by the Elorida on the 6th instant, iu lati-
tude~0S.,longitude 340 30 W., while on the voyage from Rio de
Janeiro to Baltimore; that a prize crew of 20 mcii, with one brass
swivel gun and sundry small arms, was placed on board the Clarence
and she was sent off to cruise as a privateer, as he supposes, the crew
of the Clarence being prisoners on board the Florida until their arrival
here.
	On the evening of the arrival of the Florida here, a Mr. Wilson,
British merchant of this city, of the firm of Wilson &#38; Hett, and hold-
ing the position of vice-consul of Italy, called upon me at the consulate.
He iiiformned me that the firm of whii~h lie is a member, represented in
Rio (le Janeiro by Jiett, Wilson &#38; Co. and in Bahia by Wilson Hett
&#38; Co., have a contract with the Government of the IJnited States to
supply vessels of war of the United States with coals in these three
ports. This person had the refreshing coolness to ask me if he should
supply the Florida with coals, al)plication having been made to him
for that purpose. Being a colleague, I did not kick him downstairs,
but merely told him that if lie did supply the Florida (as he evidently
intended to do) I would nse every exertion in my power to prevent him
ever making another sale to the ~4overnment of the United States.
lie left my office, after repeatedly (heclarn] g that he would not sell any
coal to thee Florida, and immediately afterwards sent 140 tons of coal
alongside that vessel,
	The pirate remained in port until the 12th instant, at 2p.m. Dur.
Pig his stay here I can not learn that any official visits were inter.
changed between the officers of the Florida and the authorities on
shore.
	The British consul at this port informed me that the commander of
the Florida called on hhn, but lie (the consul) declined an interview.
	On the 20th instant the U. S. S. Jlifohican, Captain 0. 5. Glisson,
arrived here in search of the Alabama and Florida. Being short of
coals, lie entered the port, and upon my repre~entatiomi of the conduct
of the firm of Wilson &#38; Hett, Captain Ghisson purchased his coal of
the loyal American firm of Messrs. Henry Forster &#38; Co. Mv. Wilson
entered protest at the British comisulate against Captain Glisson amid
the Government of the United States for what he alleges is a breach of
contract. Having just heft a sick bed, I was unable to accept the invi-
tation of Captain Glisson to visit the ]JiEohican. I made every effort,
however, that my infirm health would permit, to serve him. On the
21st instant I received information through the Baron de Livrainento, a
Brazilian gentleman of the highest standing and very friendly toward
the Government of the United States, that the Florida was that morn-
ing at the island of St. Alexis [Aleixo Island], about 14 leagues south
of this port. This information was at once communicated to Captain
Glisson, and the same day he left this port with the ]Jiliohican, hoping
to meet the Florida within a few hours.
	A Brazilian steam vessel of war left this port with the ]iliohiean for
the l)urpose, as is reported, of preventing any infringement on the i)art
of the ]Uiohi can of the neutrality of Brazil at the island of St. Alexis
[Aleixo Island].
	As the latter vessel was observed off this port on the following morn-
ing, it is presumed that she parted company with the Brazilian man

Page 221

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	221

of-war during the night, intending to have a clear field for operations
in case of meeting with the pirate. Since that time I have no informa-
tion of her whereabouts. The Alabama and a new ~ng1ish rebel pirate
were reported at Bahia a few days since, but the Department of State
will no doubt have information from the consul at that port as to their
movements.
	I have the honor to remain, with highest respect, your most obedient
servant,	THOMAS ADAMSoN, JR.,

Consul.
Hon. WILLIAM II. SEWARD,
secretary of AS~tate Washington, D. C.

[Endorsement.]

There is not and never has been any coal contract or agreement with
person or firm in Rio de Janeiro, Bahia or Pernambuco.
any
A. N. SMITH,
Chief Bureau Equipment and Recruiting.



Letter from U. &#38; consul at Nassau, New Provi~ence,to Acting Rear.
Admiral Wilkes, U. &#38; Navy, commanding West India squadron,
regarding successful blockade running from that port.

U.S. CONSULATE,
Nassau, New Providence, il/lay 27, 1863.
	Mv DEAR SIR: I have the honor to report that the Chippewa called
here yesterday and delivered your dispatch of the 14th at St. Thomas.
The Chippewa was here at an opportune time, I hope, and if she were
fast might pick np a runner, as there are as many as eight due within
the forty-eight hours. They will be coming in while the Chippewa is
going out. I posted Commander Bryson as to their present route, and
it is quite in his way to the rendezvous with the Rhode Island. She is
so slow that she can catch nothing that has any reasonable notice.
	I am grieved and chagrined every day at the success and impunity
of the blockade runners at Charleston and Wilmington. I am so
entirely a landsman as not to be a judge of the matter, but it strikes
the public, as it does me, that there is a screw loose somewhere in that
service. Since II have been here there have been as many as 112 voy-
ages to Charleston and Wilmington and back, equal to 224 trips; but
12 steamers have been lost or captured an(l a fair share of these by
your squadron. Under such circumstances England can set up a
plausible claim that the blockade is not such as to meet time demands
of public law, and make a good case to the foreign powers. The fact
is, success of the runners is the rule and capture the exception. I
believe I will write to the Administration to place you in charge.of
the blockading squadron at Charleston and have it made a little more
effectual and respectable.
	As to the service here, there is not likely, I think, to be any exigency
here calling for any special force. The confident expectation of the
arrival of the Oreto, or Alabama, which has long existed here, has died
away. I doubt if they will conic to a port so notorious and so well
watched as this. But I consider that there i~ and has been always an exi-
gency calling for more force here during the dark nights of each month,
and I do think that good would result from adding two or three gun

Page 222

222	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

boats to the force watching the passages to this island, provided they
were fast; slow guilboats are a broken reed. There are now sixteen
steamers engaged in running, and there are more coming. One arrived
last night from England (London); she is called the Warrior; iron, side-
wheel, very low in the water, two short smoke l)il)es and two masts,
standing in line of the keel. She is said to be the fastest that has yet
come out, having been built for Fraser &#38; Co., of Charleston. The
AS4flI5, Orion, and Norsem an, which arrived from Englnnd at about the
time the Rhode Island was here, all went to Dixie, and the Norsemam
was wrecked at Charleston (a total loss), with cargo of cotton. 1 learn
that the authorities here have warrants oat against all your pilots who
are British subjects. Yesterday, when the (Jhippewa was here, the
provost-marshal started with his boat and a warrant for Pilot Curry,
intending to get on board and arrest him if possible, he supposing the
ship to be the Tioga. Warrants are out at all the points in the
Bahamas where our cruisers resort, hoping to catch these pilots. Of
course they will not be allowed on board with their process, and the
pilots will do well not to land at any point.
	*	*	*	*	*

I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
S.	C. HAWLEY,
	U.	~. Consul, Ndssau, New Providence.
	[Acting Rear-Admiral CHAS. WILKES, U. S. Navy,
Commanding West India AS~quadron.j


Capture of the steamer Victor, May 28, 1863.
Report of Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, temporarily commanding U. S. S. Juniata, of the
capture by that vessel of steamer Victor.

U.	S. S. JUMATA,
Key West, May 30, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that, while temporarily in command
of this vessel, she captured, Morro Castle then bearing V. by 5. 4 5.,
distant about 8 miles, on the evening of the 28th ultimo [instant], the
steamer l7ictoi, of about 100 tons, then under English colors.
	The papers of the Victor were mainly correct, bnt, by the admission
of one of the crew, the vessel was intended to run the blockade, and
the natnre of the circumstantial evi(Ience is such that I think there can
be but little doubt of her condemnation. She was bound ostensibly for
Matamoras, for which place her cargo was entirely unsuited. I con-
voyed her to this port, where I arrived yesterday, the Juniata requiring
repairs.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, T. H. STEVENS,

Commander.
lion. SECRETARY OF THE NAVY.



Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Juniata, regarding protest by the master of steamer Victor against the seizure of that
vessel.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 16, 1863.

	SIR:	The seizure of the British steamer Victor by the U. S. steam
sloop Juniata, under your command, on the 28th of May last, near th

Page 223

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUJSERSUNION.	223

island of Cuba, has been the subject of serious official complaint to the
Secretary of State by the Spanish minister in Washington.
	The representations in the accompanying ~O1)Y of a protest of the
master of the Victor, and a communication of the ~panish consul at
Key West, are the basis of Mr. Tassaras complaint, and upon these
charges of illegal seizure, violation of the sovereignty of Spain, tmproper
treatment of the crew of the Victor, etc., are made.
	The Department wishes a full report from you in reference to the
seizure and other matters presented in the papers transmitted.
Yery respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Commander T. II. STEVENS, U. S. Navy,
Erie, Pa.


Further report of Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Juniata, relative to

the seizure of English steamer Victor.

ERIE, July 24, 18G3.
	SIR: In reply to your communication of the 16th ultimo, concerning
the seizure of the English steamer Victor by the Juniata, under my
command, I beg leave to state that the capture was made on the even-
ing of the 28th May, Morro Castle then bearing E. S. E. (true), distant
8 miles, and that this result was arrived at from numerous coast bear-
ings taken for, the purpose of determining the exact position of the
vessel by the master of the Juniata, Mr. Kautz, by my orders. I was
thus particular, as I thought it not unlikely the question of jurisdiction
might arise [and wished 0?] to be prepared for it. In addition to this
I directed the first lieutenant of the Juni Ia to get the opinion of the
officers upon the subject, all of whom agreed upon the (listance being
as great at least as reported, and, moreover, when I enquired of Captain
Pearce, upon his coming on board the Juniata, how far he thought the
nearest land was distant, he replied about 5 miles, which nearly agrees
with the bearing and distance of Morro Castle as reported.
	In regard to the conduct of Mr. Stimpson, the boarding officer of the
Victor, as charged in the statenient of Captain Pearce, I have only to
say this is the first intimation I have had of any such complaint. tf
Captain Pearce had any ground for just coml)laint he had ample oppor-
tunity to have made known his grievances before.
	The officers and crew of the Victor were kept in confinement, at the
request of the prize commissioner, to prevent their being tampered with
until he could procure their evidence according to law.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
T.	II. STEVENS,
Commander.
Hon. SECRETARY OF THE NAVY.



Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear.Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, com-
manding West India Squadron, transmitting complaints from the British authorities regard-
ing the capture of steamer Victor.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 31, 1863.
	SIR:	I transmit herewith a copy of a letter from the Secretary of
State dated the 20th instant, accompanied by a communication fro

Page 224

224	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Lord Lyons and other documents in reference to the seizure of the
steamer Victor by the Juniata on the 28th of May last, the conduct of
the boarding officer, and the treatment of the officers and crew of the
captured vessel.
	These papers are transmitted to you for au investigation, as far as
you may be able, of the charges against the boarding officer and of
alleged harsh treatment of the officers and crew of the Victor. The
injnries of which they complain appear to have been suffered whilst
they were in the custody of the court at Key West. Cominandei
Stevens, in a letter to the Department, states that lie kept them in coii
finement on board the Juniata, at the request of the prize commis-
sioner, to prevent their being tampered with until their evidence could
be taken.
	Communicate the result of your enquiries to the Department as early
as practicable.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Rear-Admiral JAs. L. LARDNER,
Commanding West India Squadron, Havana.

[Enclosures.]

Statement and protest of the master and officers of the British steamer Victor in regard to

her capture by the U. S. S. Juniata.

	Know all men by this public instrument of protest: That on the 25th
day of Jane, in the year of our Lord 1863, at the office of the British
consulate at Havana, before me, John Vincent Crawford, esq., her 13 ii-
tannic Majestys acting consul-general in Cuba, personally appeare(l
John James Pearce, the master and owner; Lumley Kennedy, the mate,
and George W. Ardill, chief engineer, all of aiid belonging to the screw
steamer Victor, provisionally registered at this office, and, being sev-
erally sworn upon the holy Evangelists of Almighty God, declared
that they on board of the said vessel, she then being tight, stanch,
and strong, well fitted and provisioned, nud iii every respect complete
for their then intended voyage, and being laden with a general cargo
of lawful merchandise, got up steam and departed Ironi this port ot
Havana on the afternoon of Thursday, the 28th day of May last, and
proceeded on their voyage toward the port of Matamoras, the ves-
sels clearance and other papers being iii perfect order; that when
in the narrows between the guardship and the Morro, at the entrance
of the harbor, the U. S. steam sioop Juniata passe(l themmi and stood out
to sea. At 5 p. in., when abreast of the Morro Castle, the Victor
discharged her pilot, and there being a heavy sea breaking on the
coast, they proceeded under easy steam. At 6 p. in., when they were
about Smiles flow theMorro and about 2 miles froiti Peiita [I~unta~fl de los
iloques, between the Chorrera and Marianao, the IT. S. ship of war
Juniata, theim to the northward and eastward of the Victor, bore down
upon them, and while crossing the bow hailed them and ordered th~nm
to stop until she sent a boat on board. That the Victor was namnedi-
ately stopped, and a few minutes after she was boarded by a boat from
the Juniata, time officer in command of the boat (lemandinn the vessels
papers in a most violent manner and using very insulting language.
He then ordered the boats crew to break open the cargo, and to the
masters req nest that they should use an auger to bore the chests of
tea instead of smashing the lids and damaging the contents the office

Page 225

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION~
225
paid no attention. The master was then ordered to go on board the
Juniata, and directions were given to steer the Victor in that vessels
wake. The boarding officer, being asked why he th~zis treated a British
vessel bound on a legitimate voyage and having all her papers in
proper order, replied, in a most violent manner, that Admiral Wilkess
orders were to seize every steamer nnder the British flag going to the
westward. After the master had been on board the Juniata for a con-
siderable time, the commander iiiformed him that he would take the
Victor to Key West, and, upon the masters remonstrating and pro-
testing against such a proceeding, the commander replied that, from
information received whilst at Havana, he suspected that it was th.e
masters intention to run the blockade. The master was kept a
prisoner on board the Juniata, and so were all the Victors crew
except the second engineer and one fireman. The Victor being a
light-pressure boat, the engineers of the Juniata were unable to work
her engines, so that the Victors second engineer had to be sent
back to her for that purpose. That they arrived at Key West on the
29th of May, were refused any communication with the British vice-
con sul, and kept prisoners on board the Juniata from the 29th May
until the 9th June, arid were not allowed beds of any description nor
even a change of clothes. On the 9th June the master, the chief engi.
neer, and the mate were taken to Fort Taylor, where their names were
registered, and the officer who brought them from the Juniata ordered
that they were to be placed in close confinement. They were then
locked up in a cell, the door of which was air-tight. This cell was about
10 feet squarp, with a slanting roof, the highest part being about 10
feet and the lowest part about 7 feet from the floor; in the wall at the
upper part were two holes, protected by strong iron bars. Their suffer-
ings therewere dreadful. They had to strip off the clothes which they
had been compelled to wear since their departure from Havana, and were
obliged to lay naked and gasping on the floor of the cell. After awhile
the jailer came with a bucket of water and locked the door. Next
morning they begged the jailer to get a chain so as to secure the door,
so as to leave it a little open that they might get some air, but even
this was refused. That night, the mate having become violently ill,
he had to be removed to another cell. That on the 11th June the
master was sent for and taken to the office of the prize commis-
sioner to be examined, and on his return to the fort he complained
so badly of palpitation of the heart that he was allowed to pass the
night in one of the casemates, but the following night, though still
very unwell, he was again put back into the cell. That this dreadful
treatment continued until the 13th instant, when they were all dis-
charged from the fort and set at liberty. The rest of the crew had
been landed from the Juniata on the 9th, and were left to shift for
themselves. And whereas the said steamer Victor was lawfully cleared
and laden with a legitimate cargo from Havana to Matamoras, and was
really and truly bound for the latter port, and, moreover, was in Span-
ish waters when seized by the Juniata, as aforesaid; now, therefore,
these appearers desire to protest, and by these presents do most
solemnly protest, against the commander, officers, and crew of the U. S~
S. Juniata, and against the Government of the United States of North
America, under whose orders the said commander, officers, and crew
have acted and are acting, for the unjust and arbitrary seizure and
detention of their vessel, the Victor, and her cargo, and for all losses,
damage, averages, demurrage, loss of markets, and any and all other
N W HVOL n1

Page 226

226	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

wrongs whatever which have been, or may have been, sustained or
suffered, or may have arisen to the said steamer Victor, her tackle,
apparel, or to the cargo on board in consequence tl,ereof. And, further,
these appearers do solemnly protest against, and claim damages from,
the Government of the United States for the harsh and cruel imprison-
ment they have suffered on board the Juniata and in Fort Taylor, as
being not only perfectly uncalled for, but contrary to the laws of
humanity and justice. for these appearers sweaf that they have done
nothing whatever to warrant such treatment.
JOHN. J. PEARCE.
G.	W. ARDILL.
LUMLEY KENNEDY.
	Signed and delivered before me this 25th day of June, 1863.
JOHN V. CRAWFORD,
Acting Consul- General in Cuba.


Statement of George William Ardifl, chief engineer of the Briti8h steamer Victor, in
regard to the capture of that vessel by the U. S. S. Juniata, and his subsequent treat-
nzent by the United States authorities.

	At the office of the British consulate at Havana, before me, John
Vincent Crawford, esq., her Britannic Majestys acting consul-general
in Cuba, personally appeared George William Ardill, British subject,
born at Manchester, England, chief engineer of the British steamer
Victor, provisionallyregistered at this office, and having been sworn upon
the Holy Evangelists of Almighty God, declared that he left the port
of Havana on the 28th ultimo, as chief engineer, on board of the screw
steamer Victor, bound to Matamoras, Mexico, and that about 6 oclock
the same evening, when the Victor was about 6 miles from the Morro
Castle and about 2~ miles from the coast of Cuba, the U. S. S. Juniata,
Commander Stevens, bore down upon and seized the said vessel. That
upon being ordered to go with the rest of the crew of the Victor on board
the United States ship, deponent asked to be allowed to take his clothes
along with him, but the boarding officer answered, Not a damned
stitch. Deponent theu remarked, it is very strange that you should
treat us so; we are an English vessel in Spanish waters and bound on
a legal voyage ; to which the officer replied, I dont care a damn;
Admiral Wilkess orders are to seize every damned thing going to lee-
ward and we will do it.
	Deponent was then ordered to work the engine, which he refused to
do, as he declined to obey anyone but his own captain, and he was sent
on board the Juniata with the rest of the crew. The next day they
arrived at Key West, where deponent and the rest of the crew were
detained as prisoners on board the Juniata from the 29th of May to the
9th instant, and were not allowed to communicate with the shore, or
with the British vice-consul nor were they permitted to get a change
of clothes. No beds of anj description were given them, so that they
had to sleep on the bare deck, and they were denied anything from on
board their own ship, the Victor. On the morning of the 9th instant,
deponent, together with the master and the mate, were put into a boat
and taken to Fort Taylor, where, after their names were registered, they
were confined in a dungeon 10 feet square, the roof being arched, the
highest part being 10 feet from the floor and the lowest part 7 feet.
The door was air-tight, and the only ventilation was derived from tw

Page 227

OPERATIONS OF THE CRTJISERSUNION.	227

small square openings near the roof and which were strongly grated.
The heat and stench of this dungeon soon became intolerable. They
were obliged to strip themselves naked, and lay flat ~n the floor gasping
for air. The jailer, upon their beating on the door for some time,
brought them a bucket of water, without any vessel to drink with, and
locked the door again. At 12 oclock, noon, the jailer appeared with a
sentry, and as soon as deponent, the master, and the mate had hurried
on their clothes, they were led to the soldiers mess for dinner, and were
allowed about a quarter of an hour to eat it, and they were then taken
back and locked up as before. At 6 p. m. they were taken in the same
manner to supper and returned to their dungeon. Their sufferings that
night were indescribable, because of the intense heat and the myr-
iads of mosquitoes, added to the dreadful feeling of suffocation from
the scarcity of air. Sleep under such circumstances was impossible.
About daylight the mate complained of faintness, and was seized with
violent cramps in the stomach and cold sweats, so that they had to
thump hard on the door to attract attention. In about three-quarters
of an hour the jailer came, and, seeing the mates condition, had him
removed, which gave the deponent and the master great relief; inasmuch
as the air consumed by even one person in such a narrow space was of
the utmost consequence. The 10th instant passed in the same manner,
the master complaining toward night of oppression of the heart. On
the 11th instant the master was taken out to be examined before the
prize commissioners, and deponent was left alone in the dungeon until
the following morning, when, after breakfast, he was allowed to join the
master in one pf the casemates of the fort, where, it appears, the mas-
ter had passed the night, having palpitation of the heart. The mate
was examined before the prize commissioners, and that evening, about
half-past 6 oclock, deponent, with the master and the mate, were again
locked up in the dungeon, termed by the garrison the sweat box.
Here they again suffered dreadftilly; their clothes had become offensive,
and the scarcity of air was felt, if possible, more than the first night of
their incarceration. The mosquitoes were intolerable, and the only way
they could create a circulation of air was by fanning the floor with their
coats. Their mental sufferings were very great, as being conscious of
having committed no offense or crime whatever they were in total igno-
rance of any reason for their arrest, and what preyed upon their minds
most was their uncertainty as to how long this fearful treatment would
last, for, if prolonged, it must end in certain death to all three. For-
tunately on the 13th instant, after deponent had been examined before
the prize commissioners, he and his fellow prisoners were released.
	Deponent farther declares that he protested against signing the
papers presented to him for that purpose by the prize commissioner,
Mr. Welsh, said papers purporting to be his testimony, inasmuch as he,
deponent, objected to the manner in which his answers were taken
down, not being true and fair, and large spaces being left vacant;
deponent declares that he signed these papers under a threat from the
prize commissioner that if he did not do so he would be kept in Fort
Taylor until he got ready to sign them.
Havana, 26th day of June, 1863.
0-. W. ARDILL.

	Signed and declared by the above-mentioned George William Ardill,
in my presence, this 26th day of June, 1863.
JOHN V. CRAWFORD,
Acting oon8u~-qeneral in Cuba

Page 228

228	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I do hereby certify that the above document is a true and faithful
copy, word for word, composed of an affidavit executed at this office
the day and date therein mentioned, and registered at folios 308, 309,
310 of records, Book F, in the archives of this consulate.

JOHN V. CRAWFORD,
Acting Consul- aeneral.
BRITISH CONSULATE-GENERAL,
Havana, June 28, 1863.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron,
transmitting statements of the officers of U. S. S. Juniata relative to the seizure of
steamer Victor.
FLAGSHIP TICONDEROGA,
Cape illaitien, September 24, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
the 31st of July, enclosing a copy of a letter from Lord Lyons and
other documents in reference to the seizure of the steamer Victor
by the Juniata, on the 28th day of May last, the conduct of the board-
ing officer, and the treatment of the officers and crew of the captured
vessel, which papers were transmitted to me for an investigation
of the charges against the boarding officer and of alleged harsh treat-
ment of the officers and crew of the Victor.
	Enclosed with this are numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8, the state-
ments of the commander and officers of the Juniata, who were on board
that ship qt the time.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	L. LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
	Secretary of the Navy.
[Enclosure 1.]
U.	S. S. JUNIATA,
Cape Ilaitien, September 22, 1863.
	SIR: In compliance with your order of September 21, I respectfully
submit the reports of the various officers of this vessel in reference to
the seizure of the English steamer Victor and the alleged ill treatment
of her officers and crew.
	The Victor was taken on the evening of May 28. I assumed com-
mand of the Juniata on the 30th, and found the officers and crew of
the Victor on board at that time.
	On the 9th of June, by order of Acting licar-Admiral T. Bailey, the
masters mate and senior engineer were sent to Fort Taylor, at Key
West; the remainder of the crew were allowed to go at large, and were
landed at the city of Key West.
	In regard to the ill treatment of which they (officers and crew) com-
plain, I would state that they were not confined as prisoners, but were
generally unrestricted in their movements about the ship, and that if
they had causes for complaint they were never made known to me as
the commanding officer.
	About their treatment while at Fort Taylor I know nothing.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	M. B. CLITZ,
	Commander, U. S. Navy, Commanding U. S. S. Juniata.
Acting Rear-Admiral J. L. LARDNER,
Commanding West India Squadron

Page 229

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	229

[Enclosure 2.]

U.	S. S. JUNIATA,
Cape Haitien, Haiti, September 21, 1863.
	SIR: In obedience to your order of this date, I make the following
report:
	On the evening of the 28th of May we left Havana, foil owed bya
small steamer showing English colors, and when at least 5 miles from
the coast of Cuba boarded and took possession of her. She proved to be
the steamer Victor. Ileceived on board the officers and crew, with the
exception of the second engineer and one fireman, who afterwards
came on board at Key West. The master, first and second engineers,
were quartered with the steerage officers, were furnished with beds to
sleep on, and, in flict, were well cared for. The crew~were quartered
with our own men.
	While at Key West, on account of their ragged appearance, I gave
orders that the Victor~s crew should not be allowed the use of the top-
gallant forecastle, but in every other respect they had the freedom of
the ship. The master and first engineer complained of their want of
clothing, which had been left on board the Victor. An officer was
sent to the prize commissioner, who had charge of the vessel, with the
complaint, and the answer returned was that it would be attended to.
	On the 9th of June I was directed by Commander Glitz to send the
masters mate and first engineer to Fort Taylor iii charge of Acting
Ensign Winslow, who was directed to deliver them to the commanding
officer, and was to say to him that, if orders had not yet been received,
Admiral Bailey had made all arrangements with the general command-
ing for their reception at the fort.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J. G. MAXWELL,

Lieutenant- Commander, U. S. Navy.
	Commander J. M. B. GLITZ, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Juniata.

[Enclosure 3.]

U.	S. S. JUNIATA,
Gape Haitien, September 21, 1863.
	SIR: In compliance with your order to state to you in writing the
distance of the British steamer Victor from the island of Cuba at the
time of her capture, I have to say that, in my opinion, she was betweeu
6 and 10 miles distant from the nearest land. I deem it proper to say,
too, after Commander Stevens had decided that the vessel was some
distance outside of a marine league, he took the precaution to call
upon several of the officers for their opitiions as to the distance from
the nearest land, and that, while the officers differed, none considered
the distance to the nearest land less than 5 miles.
	I may say, too, that the master of the Victor did not seem to avoid
this vessel; on the contrary, he seemed to be courting capture.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ALBERT KATJTZ,
Lieutenant and ]Jfaster, U. S. S. Juniata.

Commander J. M. B. GLITZ,
Commanding U. S. S. Juniata

Page 230

	230	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNiON.
		                  [Enclosure 4.1

U.	S. S. JUNIATA,
Cape Haitie~, September 21, 1863.
	SIR: In obedience to your order of this date, I submit the following
statement in answer to the charges made against me by the captain
and chief engineer of the steamer Victor:
	I am accused of using unnecessarily violent and abusive language to
tlie officers and crew of that vessel when I boarded her to examine her
papers and cargo; also of breaking open the packages containing her
cargo, and, after the Juniata had taken possession of that vessel, on
being remonstrated with by the chief engineer, replying that I did
not care a damn; that Admiral Wilkess orders were to seize every
damned thing going to the westward, and we would do so; and also
when they requested to be allowed to take their baggage with them on
board the Juniata that I replied they should not take a damned
stitch.
	These statements are false in every particular. I did not use any
violent or abusive language whatever, and I made no statement with
regard to orders received from Admiral Wilkes.
	I did examine the packages containing the cargo of the vessel, but
they were all opened by the mate of the steamer, his captain giving
him orders to do so at my request, as I wished to judge as to their con-
tents, not being able to do [sol from the vessels manifest, the contents
of the packages not being stated on that paper. I also beg leave to
call your attention to the statement of Mr. Pollard, the engineer sent
to take ch~rge of the engines of the Victor, he having heard all the
conversation which took place between myself and the crew of the
Victor after I went on board to take charge of that vessel.
Hoping that this statement will prove satisfactory,
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	H. STIMPSON,
Acting Master, U. S. S. Juniata.
Commander J. M. B. CLITZ,
Commanding U. S. S. Juniata.
[Enclosure 5.]

U.	S. S. JUMATA,
Cape Haitien, September 22, 1863.
	SIR: I respectfully submit this statement of the facts in relation to
the steamer Victor:
	I was sent on board of her by Captain Stevens to take charge of her
machinery. On my arrival on board I proposed to the engineer then
in charge to go ahead and a~sist in taking the vessel into Key West;
that Ii would give him all the assistance I could. lie refused to have
anything to do with Ihe vessel at all, unless he was ordered so to do by
his captain, who was then on board the Juniata. On looking around
the engine, I discovered that the rods were disconnected from the link;
also that there were no tools on board, not even a screw wrench, ham-
mer, or chisel. I returned on board the Juniata and reported these
facts to Captain Stevens, when, after consulting with the chief engineer
and his captain, the second engineer returned to the Victor and con-
sented to work the engines himself. After trying in vain thirty minutes
to start her ahead, I proposed to him to examine the expansive gear

Page 231

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	231

In doing this he found that the valves had been screwed together,
thereby closing all communication to the cylinder for the steam, at
which discovery he seemed very much surprised, ~md denied all knowl-
edge of how or why this was done, although he said that he alone had
the whole management of the engine since leaving Havana. After this
difficulty was removed we had no further trouble with the machinery
at all. That same night he himself discovered all the tools belonging
to the engine, such as hammers, chisels, wrenches, oil feeders, and
everything requisite.
	In relation to the charge made against Prize Master James Stimpson,
I deny that any abusivesor violent language was used by that gentle-
man, but, on the contrary, and nuder the circumstances, he was very
cool and self:possessed, and treated both officers. and crew with con-
sideration.
Very respectfully, your most obedient servant,
WM. POLLARD,
Second Assistant Engineer, U. S. Navy.
	Commander John [M.] B. CLITZ, U. S. Navy,

(Jommanding U. S. S. Juniata.
[Enclosure 6.]

U.	S. S. JUNIATA,
Cape Ilaitien, September 21,1863.
	SIR: Having read certain statements of the offi c~ers of the steamer
Victor as to their being ill treated whilst aboard this vessel as prisoners,
allow us, respectfully, to make.the following statement on our behalf:
	The captain of the Victor was taken into our mess and treated with
all the consideration and kindness which was possible. None could
be more astonished than we were at the statements, which are utterly
and entirely false.
Respectfully, etc., your obedient servants,
REUBEN RICH,
Acting ]Jliasters Mate;
WILLIAM MASTEN, JR.,
Paymasters Clerk;
THOMAS NELSON,
Paymasters Steward;
]iiliembers of Steerage Mess.
	Commander JOHN M. B. GLITZ,

Commanding U. S. S. Juniata.
[Enclosure 7.]

U.	S. S. JUNIATA,
Cape Ilaitien, September 20, 1863.
	SIR: Having read some statements made by the officers of the
steamer Victor as to their ill treatment whilst aboard of this vessel, we
respectfully submit the following statements on our part:
	The senior engineer and his assistant were taken into our (the en-
gineers) mess and treated as messmates in every particular, two of
our number giving up their beds to the captain and senior engineer of
the Victor, whilst the assistant angineer slept in the same bed with one
of the engineers of this vessel. During their entire stay in the vessel

Page 232

232	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

nearly two weeks, they were trcated with courtesy and consideration,
and not permitted to contribute a single cent toward the expenses of
the mess.
Respectfully, your obedient servants,
FRANCIS GRONIN
Second Assistant Engineer.
WILLIAM POLLARD,
Second Assistant Engineer.
PHILIP II. WHITE,
Third Assistant Engineer.
RICHARD I). DODGE,
Third Assistant Engineer.
ALBERT G. BONSALL,
Third Assistant Engineer.
	Commander J. M. B. GLITZ,
Commanding U. S. S. Juniata.

[Enclosure 8.]

U.	S. S. JUNIATA,
Cape Haitien, September 22, 1863.
	SIR: In relation to the treatment of the master and crew of the Vic-
tor during their detention on board of this vessel, I have to state that
no instance of hardship or severity caine under my observation.
	On the morning after the capture, the master, Pearce, applied to me
for medical assistance, which was promptly rendered. The necessity
resulted from a want of his habitual stimulus (brandy and water), to
the free use of which he stated he had been long accustomed.
	One of the crew was treated successfully for ulcer of the leg during
his sojourn on board.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ALBERT SCHBIVER,
Surgeon.
	Commander J. M. B. GLITZ,
Commanding U. S. S. Juniata.



Report of Commander Wyman, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Santiago
de Cuba, of intended departure for Cape Haitien, West Indies, to join
the U. S. S. Rhode .list and.
U.	S. S. SANTIAGO DE CUBA,
St. Thomas, May 28, 1863.
	SIR: After the wreck of the U. S. ship Shepherd Knapp I was directed
by Commander Trenchard to take on board the provisions brought out
by the Nationa~ Guard and proceed to this place, where I arrived on
the 26th instant, discharged immediately, and leave on the 28th for
Cape Haitien to fill up with coal and join Commander Trenchard, in
accordance with your orders* of the 13th instant. Should the officers
and crew of the Shepherd Knapp have finished removing every article
from that vessel, I shall, subject to your approval, fill up our comple-
ment of officers and men from her and take those required by the Rhode
I8tand to her, as I judge that such would be your wish, rather than
* See pp. 189, 190

Page 233

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	233

they should remain idle and crowded on board the National Guard,
and moreover as this vessel has not men enough to man her guns with-
out taking the marines and some from the fire department.
	Commander Nichols, of the Alabama, has furnished this vessel with
$960 on my representation to him that you would have it refunded to
his vessel on your arrival, deducting it from the amount of the requisi-
tion made by the paymaster of this vessel.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
B. II. WYMAN,
Commander, U. S. Navy, Commanding.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHAS. WiLKES,
Commanding U. S. West India Squadron.



Letter from 1)rominent officials of New York insurance companies to the
Secretary of the Navy urging increased protection for American vessels
in the vicinity of the equator.

NEW YORK, May 29, 18G3.
	SIR: The Confederate vessels Florida and Alabama are committing
great depredations upon our commerce crossing the equator betweeu
longitude 250 and 350 west from Greenwich and between latitude 2~
north and south.
	We learn from Captain Potter, late of ship Oneida, recently captured
by the FlorNa, that this vessel, in company with the Alabama and the
bark Lapwing, a vessel captured by the Florida about the 27th March
last, are cruising along the line specified to intercept.and capture such
of our commercial vessels as are compelled to cross there on their way
out and home.
	We desire to ask whether any vessels of the Navy have beeu ordered
to that vicinity for the protection of the commercial marine and to urge
the importance of such protection.
Very respectfully, your obedient servants,
ATLANTIC MUTUAL INSURANCE Co.,
By CHARLES DENNIS, Vice-President.
SUN MUTUAL INSURANCE Co.,
By M. II. GRINNELL, President.
PACIFIC MUTUAL INSURANCE Co.,
By ALFRED EDWARDS, President.
GREAT WESTERN INSURANCE Co.,
By JOHN A. PARKER, Vice-President.
COMMERCIAL MUTUAL INSURANCE Co.,
By DANL. DRAKE SMITH, President.
NEW YORK MUTUAL INSURANCE Co.,
By JOHN II. EARLE, President.
THE UNION MUTUAL INSURANCE Co.,
[By] JNO. S. TAPPAN, Vice-President.
THE NEPTUNE INSURANCE Co.,
By J. P. TAPPAN, President.
THE WASHINGTON MUTUAL INSURANCE Co.,
By A. W. WIIIPPLE, Vice-President.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 234

234	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to officials of New York insur-
ance companies regarding steps taken by the Department in view of
depredations by Confederate cruisers in the vi~inity of the equator.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, May 30, 1863.

	GENTLEMEN: Your letter of the 29th instant, enquiring whether any
vessels of the Navy have been ordered to the vicinity where the recent
captures by the Alabama and Florida were made, has been received.
	While it would not be expedient to detail particulars in regard to
the cruising ground of our vessels, it will not be improper to state that
the region indicated in your letter and which has witnessed the recent
depredations upon our commerce by the vessels named had long since
attracted the attention of this Department. Anticipating the resort of
these lawless depredators to those latitudes, our naval commanders
were especially instructed in regard to them. I regret that anything
should have occurred to prevent us from interrupting their piratical
course and capturing the depredators.
Very respectfully,
	GIDEON WELLES
	OnAs. DENNIS, Esq.,	Secretary of the Navy.
Vice Prest. Atlantic Mutual Insurance Co., and others, New York.


Report of Commander J. M. B. Clitz, U. S. Navy, regarding exchanges of
command.

U.	S. STEAM GUNBOAT SONOMA,
Key West, May 30, 1863.
	SIR:	I have to inform you that on the 9th instant I proceeded
to sea with the Juniata and cruised, as directed in your orders* of
April 7. On the 14th, by directions of Commander T. II. Stevens,
returned with the Juntata to Havana. On the 15th exchanged com-
mands with Commander Stevens. Finding that the Sonoma required
extensive repairs, sailed for Key West, where we arrived on the 16th.
	To-day, by your order of the 16th of May, I shall again exchange
commands with Commander Stevens. The repairs on the machinery
of the vessel are about completed.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
J.	N. 13. CLITZ,
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHAS. WILKES,	Commander.
Flagship Vanderbilt, West India Squadron.


Report of Commander Bryson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Chip-
pewa, of arrival at Port Royal, S. C., transmitting orders regarding
the same.
U.	S. GUNBOAT CITIPPEWA
Port Royal, S. C., May 30, ,1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform the Department that I arrived here
with this vessel and reported for duty to Rear-Admiral Du Pont on the
afternoon of this date.

~Seep. 145

Page 234A


Page 234B

UNITED STATES STEAMER RHODE ISLAND

Page 235

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	235

	On my way to this port I stopped at Madeira, St. Viiicent, and St.
Thomas for coal. At the latter place I fell in with the Vanderbilt,
Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, who ordered the ship to Cape ilaitien
and Nassau with dispatches. At Cape Haitien we were detained by
order of Commander Stephen P. Trenchard.
	I enclose copies of the above orders.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
A.	BRYSON,
Commander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C
[Enclosure.]

U.	S. S. RHODE ISLAND,
Cape Haitien, May 22, 1863.
	SIR: It having been necessary to detain the U. S. gunboat Chipjpewa
at this place for a few days to assist in aiding the U. S. slfip Shepherd
Knapp, which went ashore on the reef off this harbor on the evening of
the 18th of May, and there being now no further necessity for detaining
your vessel, you will proceed to carry out the orders* given you by
Admiral Wilkes.
	I take this opportunity of acknowledging the very prompt and effi-
cient service rendered by yourself and vessel.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
STEPHEN B. TRENCILARD,
Commander and Senior Officer Present.
	Commander A. BRYSON, U. S. Navy,
U.	AS. AS. Chippewa, Cape Haitie~


Chase of the Margaret and Jessie, May 30, 1863.
Report of Commander Trenchard, U. S. liavy, commanding U. 5. S. Rhode Island.

U.	S. S. RHODE ISLAND,
Stirrup Cay, June 1, 1863.
	SIR: In order that the Department may be in possession as early as
possible of the facts connected with the steamer fired into by the Rhode
Island on the 30th ultimo, I have to submit the following statement:
	At 10:15 a. m. on the 30th ultimo, when in latitude 250 47 N., longi-
tude 760 23 W., Harbor Island, Eleuthera, bearing S. W. ~ 5., 20 miles
distant, we made a steamer bearing E. N. E., about 8 miles distant.
We gave chase to cut her off. It was at once apparent that the
steamer was one of great speed, bnt we commenced closing in with
her, and soon discovered that she was a very suspicious-looking vessel,
low in water, with two smokestacks, one mast, and painted lead color.
	The distance between us beginning to shorten, at 12:30 p.m.we
showed our colors and fired a blank cartridge. After a sufficient inter-
val, the chase showing no colors or stopping, we fired a shot ahead of
of her, and, paying no attention to this, a direct firing was commenced
upon her with the longest range guns.
	At 1 p. m. we made the land directly ahead, 14 miles distant, bear-
ingS. byW.
	The vessels headed in the direction of the shore until some 6 or 8
miles from it, when the chase was continued more upon a line with it.

5Seep. 189

Page 236

236	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	Between 1:30 and 2 p. in., finding the chase within range of our
broadsj~le guns, we opened fire with them, and it could be plainly seen
that they began to take effect, the chase, howev~.r, still retaining her
high rate of speed, but without showing any colors.
	At 2:20 p. in., when the steamer was distant from the shore about
3~ miles and we from her 14, we ceased firing, being then offshore of
the chase.
	About this time a dense smoke issued from her, which led me to
snppose that she was on fire. She was then headed directly for the
shore, and we for a time stopped our engine, and then continued along
the reef, edging in slowly toward the land, until obtaining soundings
and after the chase had run upon the shore, we anchored in 13 fathoms
water.
	About two hours after the vessel had beached I directed Lieutenant
Farquhar, executive officer of this vessel, to proceed in and ascertain,
if possible, the nationality and name of the stranded steamer, but not
to board her. Upon approaching her he discovered, from her name in
large letters on the stern, that she was the ]Jliargaret and Jessie, of
Charleston, and deeply laden with cotton. He also learned from a
wrecking boat that came from the shore that she had been abandoned
and been taken in charge by the wreckers.
	It will be seen from this statement that there has been no violation
of neutrality on our part, which it has been my great aim to respect
since I have been in command. As the vessel was upon the high seas
and showing no colors, she could be regarded in no other light but
as a pirate, and as such unworthy of any consideration. In case any
casualties may have resulted from the effects of our shell, it may be
attributed to the pertinacity upon the part of the commander of the
Margaret and Jessie in persisting to run his vessel by the guns of this
steamer. The vessel would have sunk if she had not run upon shore.
She now lies about 3 miles to the eastward of James Point, Eleuthera,
and when we left the water had risen above her guards.
	I have since learned, from a communication found at this place from
our consul at Nassau, that the Margaret and Jessie was one of the num-
ber of vessels with torpedoes on board and so arranged as to explode
as soon as the prize crew should take possession of the vessel.
	I will transmit a copy of this report to Admiral Wilkes, commanding
West India Squadron.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
STEPHEN ID. TRENCHARD,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. 0.


Letter from L. Heyliger, esq., C. S. commercial agent at Nassau, to the Secretary of State of
the Confederate States, transmitting statement of officers of Confederate steamer Margaret
and Jessie regarding the firing upon that vessel by the U. S. S. Rhode Island.

NASSAU, NEW PROVIDENCE, June 6, 1863.

	SIR: My last communication was under date of the 17th ultimo.
The English mail which arrived on the 27th brought me letters from
Mr. Slidell and Mr. Mason, but no dispatches for you.
	I transmit herewith an extract from the Nassau Guardian, contain-
ing a hurried account, written by me just before the paper went to
press, of a most disgraceful outrage perpetrated by the Yankee gun

Page 237

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	237

boat Rhode Island. It is needless for me to enlarge on the details, as
they are accurately related in the enclosed authenticated copy of the
protest of the captain, officers, and crew of the ~Iargaret and Jessie.
Immediately on receipt of the news I started on the steamer Raccoon
for Elenthera, my object being to obtain all the material evidence
bearing on this aggression, but at Egg Island, some 30 miles from here,
we discovered the Margaret and Jessie, bearing for Nassau, and con-
sequently returned. On the following morning, however, I dispatched
a competent notary public to get hold of all the testimony he could
from the inhabitants of the island, which I am glad to say has been
satisfactorily accomplished, and I expect the party back to-morrow or
the day after.
	This morning fonr first-rate witnesses have arrived to my consign-
ment, and their testimony, which is telling in the extreme, will be taken
this afternoon. Portions of the shell that exploded on the island have
been discovered; evidence, moreover, is adduced, beyond the shadow of
a doubt, that shot passed over the island into the bay; and on the
material point that the firing was done at a distance of not over half a
mile, the testimony is uniform and conclusive. It is my intention to
have a formal deposition made on Monday, charging the commander of
the Rhode Island with aggravated assault and intent to commit murder.
In fact, I am determined that nothing shall be left undone to complete
the case. The agent of the Margaret and Jessie is also prosecuting
vigorously, with a view to heavy damages, and in this connection will
have to furnish an insight into the profits and regularity of running
the blockade, which will somewhat startle the advocates of hermetically
sealing the ports.
	By the British closed mail, which leaves to-morrow, I shall tr~mnsmit
to Mr. Mason a duly certified copy of the protest, and acquaint him
fully with the facts of the case. I shall also forward a statement of
all the vessels that have run the blockade to this port since the 10th
July last, numbering 102, being an average of about 10 a month;
likewise a copy of all the vessels that have cleared hence since the 1st
July, and what has become of them. This list embraces 178 vessels,
of which 55 were captured. Both statements comprise particulars of
cargoes, etc.
	The enclosed extract from the Guardian contains also an intercepted
letter from the captain of the Pederal gunboat Tioga. Through some
influence it is unnecessary to mention, I had the letter intercepted and
have the original in my possession. It is addressed to the Federal
consul here, Seth. C. Hawley. On reflection Ldeemed it best to pub-
lish the document with an introductory remark. Objection was made
by the publisher to insert the names of two parties mentioned therein,
but I overruled him. I assure you this has done no harm. On the con-
trary, it has tended to confirm what I have all along assured the author-
ities was a fact that there existed a regularly organized channel of
communication between the consul and the gunboats, by means of light.
house keepers, pilots, etc., in utter contempt and violation of the Queens
proclamation. I shall likewise forward this to Mr. Mason.
	In a small community like this it is difficult to keep things secret, and
it seems to have leaked out that I furnished the letter. I suppose some
one in the newspaper office divulged it, but after all it is not a matter
of much moment and does not affect me.
	By the last mail representations of a very strong character were for-
warded to Lord Lyons and to the IDuke of Newcastle, her Majestys
principal secretary of state for colonial affairs, in reference to the
restrictions imposed by the Federal Goverutient on exports to Nassau

Page 238

238	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

In the correspondence had last year on the subject, the British Gov-
ernment stated that these restrictions would not be tolerated, and now
that the matter is brought up anew it must lead to a settlement of
some kind. I understand that of late similar restrictions have been
put on exports to Cuba, to which I hardly believe that the Spanish
Government, with its habitual sensitiveness, will assent.
	Straggling lots of cotton, not to any notable extent, are occasionally
bought here, say in parcels of 5 to 12 and 15 bales, and shipped North.
These come out in sailing vessels, for the cotton by steamers invariably
goes to England. At this season of the year, when calms prevail,
nine-tenths of the sailing vessels are bound to be captured. Would it
not be well to suspend temporarily the privilege of exporting cotton by
sailing vessels, assigning, moreover, as a reason, that the numerous
lines of steamers now running to the coast perform their trips with a
promptitude and regularity that bids defiance to the blockade?
	The governor will transmit by to-morrows mail the protest of the
captain and officers of the Margaret and Jessie.
	Does the Government allow any funds for the relief of citizens abroad
who may be in actual distress? In a few instances I have contributed
a trifle, and only lately gave $25 to enable two brothers, Doussan, of
Louisiana, to get back in the Confederacy and join the army, besides
securing a free passage for bothnot an easy matter. To the extent of
my ability I shall continue to relieve such cases.
Will	you oblige me by handing the enclosure to Mr. Washington?
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
		L. HEYLIGER.
Hon. J. P. BENJAMIN,
*	Secretary of State, Richmond.

[Enclosuro.l

BAHAMA ISLANDS, NEW PROVIDENCE.
	By this public instrument of declaration and protest be it known and
made manifest that on Tuesday, the 2d day of June, in the year of our
Lord 1863, personally came and appeared before me, Bruce Lockhart
Buruside, a notary public by lawful authority appointed, duly admitted
and sworn, residing and practicing in the city of Nassau, in the island
of New Providence, William Wilson, the master of the steamship ]liEar-
garet and Jessie of and belonging to the port of Charleston in the State
of South Carolina, Confederate States of America, and caused a protest
to be duly noted before me, the said notary, against the acts and deeds
of the captain or other officer in charge of a certain vessel of war, of
and belonging to the United States of America, occasioning injury to
the said steamship ill argaret and Jessie, and thereby entailing loss and
damage to the owners and others interested in the said steamship and
the cargo on board of her laden. And now on this day, being Friday,
the 5th day of June, in the year aforesaid, again came and appeared the
said William Wilson, the master, and James Forbes, first mate; Chris-
topher Cowper, second mate; John Fitzgerald, third mate; Thomas
Plane, purser; John Blackley, carpenter; Robert Warner Lockwood,
pilot; Octavius Henry Dorsett, coasting pilot; Peter Skues, chief engi-
neer; John Scott, second engineer; Thomas Russell, third engineer;
Samuel Johnson, fourth engineer; John McLean, fireman; Joseph Gil-
breath, fireman, of and belonging to the said steamship, who, of their
own free will and voluntary accord, did solemnly declare, such declara-
tion being made in pursuance of the laws of the Bahamas for substitut-
ing a declaration in lieu of an oath in certaill cases

Page 239

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	239

	That these declarants and the rest of the crew of the said steamship
Margaret and Jessie sailed in and on board of her, on Wednesday, the
27th day of May last past, from the port of Charleston, in the State of
South Carolina, one of the Confederate States of America, with a cargo
consisting of 730 bales of cotton and with 16 passengers, bound on a
voyage to ~assan,in the island of New Providence, one of the said
Bahama Islands, the said steamship at the time of her departure as
aforesaid being tight, stanch, strong, and seaworthy, and in every
respect fitted, equipped, manned, and found for the prosecution of the
aforesaid voyage.
	That nothing material occurred. They encountered heavy weather
until the forenoon of Saturday, the 31st day of May, about 10 a. in.,
civil time, the Magaret and Jessie then being about 90 miles to the
north and east of the island of Abaco, one of the Bahama Islands, and
ther steering a south by west course to make the land of Eleuthera, also
one of the Bahama Islands, the territory of her Majesty the Queen of
Great Britain, then distant about 25 miles. A steamship was observed
to leeward of the Margaret and Jessie, heading easterly across her
stern. That about a quarter of an hour after the said steamship had
been first observed by the parties on board of the Margaret and Jessie
she was seen to change her course and give chase to the Magaret and
Jessie, the master of which, suspecting that the other vessel was a ves-
sel of war of the United States, and that the intention was to make a
prize of his vessel, ordered her to be put at full speed for the land of
Eleuthera, then being a part of the neutral territory of her Britannic
Majesty the Queen of England.
	That the said vessel of war continued to chase the Margaret and
Jessie, but at no time succeeded in approaching nearer to her than 4
miles, until about half past 12 oclock noon of that day, the Margaret
and Jessie being distant from the mainland of Eleuthera, which she
was then fast approaching, about 5 miles, and the vessel of war distant
astern of the Margaret and Jessie about 4 miles, a shot was fired from
the v~ssel of war which fell short of the Margaret and Jessie; that the
Marg~ret and Jessie was still run direct for the land, and arrived within
the territorial limit of 3 miles shortly after; in the meantime the vessel
of war firing shot after shot at her. That from the time the Margaret
and Jessie arrived within such territorial limit as aforesaid, the Mar-
garet and Jessie being hemmed in by the land, the vessel of war was
enabled to approach nearer to her, and the Margaret and Jessie was
consequently taken to within 300 yards of the shore. That from the
time the Margaret and Jessie arrived within such territorial limit as
aforesaid, until she was taken to within such distance of 300 yards
from the land, as before mentioned, no cessation whatever was made
in the discharge from the war vessel of shot and shell, many of which
passed over the Margaret and Jessie, struck and exploded upon the
land which lay within [beyond] her.
	That the steamship Margaret and Jessie having arrived within the
distance of 300 yards as aforesaid, her course was at once changed to
prevent her grounding on the rocks, and she was coasted along the
land in a westwardly direction, keeping within that distance from the
land, notwithstanding which no cessation was made in the discharge
at her of shot and shell from the war vessel, which approached to
within 500 yards of the Margaret and Jessie, and coasted along with
her for an hour and a half incessantly discharging shot, shell, and
what appeared to these declarants to be grape and canister

Page 240

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
240

	That the Margaret and Jessie, from her close proximi ~y to the land,
took the bottom on several occasions, and many of the shot and shell
discharged at her passed over and struck agai~st the land of Eleu-
thera; that at about thirty minutes past 3 p. m. the Margaret and
Jessie then being not over 300 yards from the beach, a 7-inch spherical
shell, discharged from the vessel of war, strnck her on the starboard
side, jnst below the water line, and entered her boiler, causing the
steam to escape, thereby severely injuring one of the engineers, and
the water to flow into the ship, and the said declarant, William Wilson,
then at once ordered the wheel to be put astarboard, but before the
order could be obeyed the ship ran upon the ground and filled with
water, not 300 yards from the beach, her position being a little to the
east of a point of land known as James Point, on the north side of the
island of Eleuthera, one of the Bahama Islands.
	And the declarants did further declare that whilst the said merchant
ship Margaret and Jessie and the said vessel of war of the United States
of America were both within the territorial jurisdiction of her Majesty
the Queen of Great Britain, as hereinbefore detailed, they, the said
parties on board of the said vessel of war, then being officers in the
naval service of the United States of America, in violation of the munic-
ipal laws of the said territory of her Majesty the Queen, did feloniously
discharge against the said parties then being on board of the said
steamship Margaret and Jessie certain cannons then loaded with gun-
powder and shot, shell, shrapnel, and ottier deadly missiles, with intent
thereby the said parties on board of the said merchant ship Margaret
and Jessie, ~r some of them, to kill and murder.
	That from the time that the said vessel of war entered within the
distance of 3 miles from the land until the time that a shot from her
sunk the Margaret and Jessie, as before set forth, the American ensign
was flying at her main peak, she being a brig-rigged steam vessel, pro-
pelled by side-wheels, with a beam engine above the deck; that when a
shot propelled from a gun on board of her struck the Margaret and Jessie,
she, the said war vessel, was distant from the mainland of EleLthera
not 500 yards, but so soon as it was observed by the par on oard
of the war vessel that the Margaret and Jessie had been driven shore
andsunk,thevesselofwarwasheadedtosea,andhavingproceeded~
the distance of about a mile from where the Margaret and Jessie lay, she,
the vessel of war, was brought to anchor and two armed boats dis-
patched to the Margaret and Jessie, which rowed round her. In the
said boat were officers in the uniform of the Navy of the United States,
and this declarant, the said James Forbes, enquired of one of the
officers what ship of war that was, and was answered that it was the
U. S. vessel of war savannah, but these declarants believe that in truth
and in fact that the vessel of war was the U. S. vessel of war Rhode
Island, and not the savannah.
	And these declarants did further declare that the master and crew of
the said steamship, with the passengers, upon observing the armed boats
proceeding for the said steamship, all quitted her and landed on the
shore.
	That shortly after parties of wreckers from inland caine down and
the said steamship was given up to them to work in endeavoring to save
the cargo and, if possible, to get her off; that the said parties immedi-
ately commenced working, and, with the aid and assistance of others
who subsequently arrived at the ship in wrecking vessels, succeeded,
after great exertions, in discharging the cargo and in pumping the wate

Page 241

OPERATIONS OF THE CREtISERSUNION.	241

from the said steamship, after which she was floated off, and in their
charge he, the declarant, the said Captain Wilson, being also on board,
brought to this port of Nassau. The passengers a~d crew having been
brought to the port of Nassau in the wrecking vessels, they, the said
wreckers, claimed salvage remuneration for their services to the said
ship and her cargo.
	And the said declarants did further declare that from the time the
said steamship quitted the said port of Charleston until she was sunk,
as aforesaid, within the jurisdiction of her Britannic Majesty, by a ves-
sel of war of the United States everything was done by the master and
all on board to conduct her in safety to the port of her destination, and
they attribute the sinking of the said steamship and her stranding upon
the island of Eleuthera to the act of the parties on board of the said
vessel of war of the United States, whilst both of such vessels were
within the territorial jurisdiction of her Majesty the Queen, in exercis-
ing acts of hostility against the said merchant steamship Margaret and
Jessie and feloniously attempting to kill and murder the persons on
board of her, she then being not 300 yards from the lan~l, and to the
fact of a shell having been shot through the side of the said steamship
from the said vessel of war when such last-mentioned vessel was not
500 yards from the land.
WM. WILSON,
Master.
JAMi~s FORBES,
Chief Mate.
CHRISTOPHER CoWPER,
Second Mate.
J.	FITZGERALD.
THOMAS PLANE,
Purser.
JOHN BLACKLEY,

Carpenter.
ROBERT WARNER LOCKWOOD,
Pilot.
OCTAYrUS II. DORSETT,

Coasting Pilot.
PETER SKUES,
Chief Engineer.
JOHN SCOTT,
Second Engineer.
THOMAS RUSSELL,
Third Engineer.
SAMUEL JOHNSON,
Fourth Engineer.
JOHN MCLEAN.
his
JOSEPH X GILEREATH.
mark.

	Wherefore, the said master has desired me, the said notary, to pro-
test, and I do by these presents solemnly and formally protest and
declare against the acts and deeds of the persons on board of the said
vessel of war and against all and every act, matter, and thing occasion-
ing, as aforesaid, loss~ and damage to the said steamship to the intent
that it may be submitted unto, suffered, and borne by those to whom it
shall of right belong or in anywise concern.
N W RYOL 111

Page 242

242	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	In testimony whereof the said declarants have hereunto set their
hands and I, the said notary, my hand and seal notarial this 5th day of
June, in the year of our Lord 1863.
	[L. s.~	B. L. BURNSIDE,
	ifotary Public.

BAHAMA ISLANDS, New Providence.
To all to whom these presents shall come:
	I, Bruce Lockhart Burnside, a notary public by lawful authority
appointed, dnly admitted and sworn, residing and practicing in the city
of Nassau, in the island of New Providence, do hereby certify the fore-
going to be a true copy of a protest duly made before me, the said notary,
by the master and crew of the Confederate merchant steamship Margaret
and Jessie, as the same remains of record in my official notarial record
book, page 153 to page 160. In faith and testimony whereof I have
placed and affixed my hand and seal notarial this 6th day of June, in
the year of our Lord 1863.
	B. L. BUENSIDE,

Notary Public, Bahamas.


Letter from Messrs. Jno. Fraser &#38; Co. to the Secretary of State of the Confederate States
transmitting ten affidavits in relation to the affair of the steamer Margaret and Jessie.

~3HARLESTON, June 24, 1863.

	SIR: W~ have received your dispatch of the 23d instant this a. in.,
and the enclosed declarations in the case of the Miargaret and Jessie,
wantonly attacked in British waters by an armed vessel of the United
States, having- just reached us, we send them to you as of value, prob-
ably, in establishing the facts. The originals of the same are doubtless
accessible on record in Nassau, New Providence.
We are, very respectfully, your obedient servants,
JNo. FRASER &#38; Co.
	lion. J. P. BENJAMIN,
Secretary of State, Richmond.

[Enclosures.]

Declaration of B. C. Thute [master, C. S. Navy], passenger on board steamship Margaret

and Jeisie.

	That he, the declarant, was a passenger on board the steamship
Margaret and Jessie, which sailed from the port of Charleston on the
27th of May last, bound for this port of Nassau; that on the morning of
Saturday, the 30th, a steam vessel of war gave chase to the Margaret
and Jessie and she was run for the land of Eleuthera, one of the Bahama
Islands, in the territory of her Majesty the Queen of Great Britain,
and about half past 12, noon, the Margaret and Jessie being then
distant from the land of the island of Eleuthera about 5 miles, with the
vessel of war astern distant about 5 miles, the latter vessel opened fire
npon her with shot and shell; that the Margaret and Jessie was still
headed for the land, the war vessel continuing in pursuit, incessantly
discharging shot and shell, which fell thickly over and around the
Margaret and Jessie until she arrived within 500 yards of the beach,
when, to prevent her going npon the land, her course was changed
and she was headed westwardly, coasting and skirting the land at a
distance of between 400 to 500 yards from it; that shethen continue

Page 243

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	243

for a period of an hour and three-quarters, during all which time the
Margaret and Jessie never was further than 500 yards from the land.
The vessel of war continued to chase, being to the distance of about
1 mile from the land and discharging shot and s1~ell by broadsides,
which fell thickly around the vessel, and many of which passed over
her aild struck the land. And so near during all this time was the
]lliargaret and Jessie kept to the shore that she took the ground several
times in passing over a reef which lies a short distance from the land.
	That eventually a shell, shot from the vessel of war, struck the
Margaret and Jessie, she then being not further than 400 yards from the
land, and passed through into her boiler, which so disabled her that
she, within a minute of time, took the ground and filled with water, not
over 400 yards from the beach, and the passengers and crew, fearing
that boats would board from the vessel of war, quitted the vessel and
went to the shore, and shortly afterwards two boats from the vessel of
war quitted her and rowed round the Margaret and Jessie as she lay
ashore and then returned to their ship, in which boats were officers
dressed in the uniform of the U. S. Navy.
	That the said steam vessel of war had flying from her main peak the
United States ensign, she being brig rigged, with a beam engine on
deck, and propelled by side-wheels.
B.	C. FOUTE.


Declaration of Ivey Foreman, pa8senger.

	That he, th~ declarant, was a passenger on board the steamship
Margaret and Jessie, which sailed from the port of Charleston on the
27th day of May last, bound for this port of Nassau.
	That, having heard read over to him the annexed declaration of
Robert C. Foute, he can personally testify that everything therein con-
tained is just and true, this declarant having been an eyewitness to all
the occurrences therein detailed and set forth.
Ivi~v FOREMAN.

	Declared to at Nassau this 6th day of June, A. D. 1863.
B. L. BURNSIDE,
Notary Public, Bahamas.
	The above is declared to by Charles M. Morris, II. B. Claiborne,
Chas. K. King, Daniel Trigg, II. B. Littlepage [officers of the C. S.
Navy].


Declaration of 0. 1W. Morris [lieutenant, C. S. Navy].

	That he, the declarant, was a passenger on board the steamship
Margaret and Jessie, which sailed from the port of Charleston on the
27th of May last, bound for this port of Nassau.
	That on the morning of Saturday, the 30th, a steam vessel of war
gave chase to the Margaret and Jessie, and she was run for the land of
Eleuthera, one of the Bahama Islands, in the territory of her Majesty
the Queen of Great Britain, and about half past 12noon, the Margaret
and Jessie being then distant from the land of the island of Eleuthera
about Smiles, with the vessel of war astern distant about 4 miles,the
latter vessel opened fire upon her with shot and shell that the Margaret
and Jessie was still headed for the land, the war vessel continuing in
pursuit, incessantly discharging shot and shell, which fell-thickly ove

Page 244

244	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

and around the Margaret and Jessie until she arrived within 500 yards
of the beach, when, to prevent her going upon the land, her course was
changed and she was headed westwardly, coaThug and skirting the
land at a distance of between 400 to 500 yards from it.
	That she thus continued for a period of an hour and three-quarters,
during all whicli time the Margaret and Jessie never was further than
500 yards from the land. The ship of war continued the chase, being
to the distance of about 1 mile from the Margaret and Jessie, discharg-
ing shot and shell by broadsides, which fell thickly around the vessel
and many of which passed over her and struck the land, and so near
during all this latter time was the Margaret and Jessie kept to the
shore that she took the ground several times in passing over a reef
which lies a short distance from the land.
	That eventually a shell, shot from the vessel of war, struck the Mar-
garet and Jessie, she then being not further than 400 yards from the
land, and passed through into her boiler, which so disabled her that
she, within a minute of time, took the ground and filled with water, not
over 400 yards from the beach, and the passengers and crew, fearing
that boats would board from the vessel of war, quitted the vessel and
went to the shore and shortly afterwards two boats from the vessel
of war quitted her and rowed round the Margaret and Jessie as she lay
ashore, and then returned to their ship, in which boats were officers
dressed in the uniform of the U. S. Navy.
	That the said steam vessel of war had flying from her main peak the
United States ensign, she being brig rigged, with a beam engine on
deck, and paddle wheels.
C.	M. MORRIS.
	Declared to at Nassau this 6th day of June, 1863.
B. L. BURN$IDE,
Notary Public, Bahamas.


Declaration of H. B. Claiborne and Chas. K. King.

	That they, the declarants, were passengers on board the steamship
Margaret and Jessie, which sailed from the port of Charleston on the
27th of May last, bound for this port of ~ assan.
	That, having heard read over to them the annexed declaration of
Charles M. Morris, they can personally testify that everything therein
contained is just and true, these declarants having been eyewitnesses
to all the occurrences therein detailed and set forth.
H. B. CLAIBORNE.
CHAS. K. KING.

	Declared to at Nassau the 6th day of June, A. D. 1863.
B. L. BURNSIDE,

Notary Public, Bahamas.


Declaration of Samnel Mackey, of Jame8 Point, in the I8land of Eleuthera, planter.

	I am a planter and reside at James Point, in the island of Eleuthera,
one of the Bahama Islands. On Saturday, the 30th day of May last
past, I was out fishing on the southern side of the settlement. The
settlement is about 2 miles wide from north to south. While out fish-
ing I heard the reports of several heavy guns from the northeast. On
returning to the shore, being about.3 yards from it, I heard the repor

Page 245

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	245

of a gun and saw a cannon ball fall on the land in the middle of the
settlement, where the houses are built. I found a portion of the shot
to-day in the place where I saw it fall.

SAMUEL X MACKEY.
mark.
Declared to before me this 4th day of June, A. ID. 1863.
ORMOND ID. MALCOLM,
Notary Public, Bahamas.

Declaration of William Jianna, of James Point, Eleuthera.

	I reside at James Point, a settlement on the island of Elenthera, one
of the said Bahama Islands. I am a farmer, but occasionally go to sea.
The settlement of James Point is bounded on the north and south by
the sea, being about 2 miles in widththat is, from the north to the
south.
	On Saturday morning past, the 30th day of May last, I left my resi-
dence at James Point in my boat on the south side of the settlement
for the purpose of fishing. Thomas Mackey, a resident of the said set-
tlement, went with me. After fishing for some time, we started on our
return home. When we were about I mile from the settlement I heard
the reports of several heavy guns, the same seeming to be fired from a
northeasterly direction. When about 200 yards from the place where
I intended to land, in order to proceed to my house, I heard the report
of a gun, and about five or six seconds after a cannon shot went past
the boat in which we were and fell in the water, having come across the
land in a northerly direction, about 30 yards from a boat in which
one Theodore Cavillier, of the same settlement, was. I landed at the
settlement about 3 oclock on this day, Saturday, the 30th, and on
landing was informed that a steamer was on shore on the northern side
of the settlement. Upon hearing this I climbed to the roof of my
house, which is about 35 feet from the ground, and on looking across
the land to the northermi side of the settlement I saw two steamers, one
of them being ashore on a reef a few hundred yards from the shore
and the other lying to about 300 yards from the one on shore, with an
American flag flying from her main peak. The steamer on shore had
no flag flying. I then came down from the roof of my house and pro-
ceeded, in company with several others, to the beach on the northern
side of the settlement, where I found two ladies and several gentlemen,
who had just landed from the steamer on shore on the reef. The cap-
tain, mates, and crew landed while I was there.
	After I had been on the beach about two hours, two boats put 6ff
from the steamer with the American flag flying and came to the steamer
on shore, rowed around her, and then returned. Both of these boats
had American flags in their sterns. An officer was in each boat, having
gold buttons on his coat. There were guns on board of the steamer
with the American flag flying. I could see them run out through the
portholes in her side. I could plainly see the men moving about her
decks. I should say she was about 600 or 800 yards from the shore.
She remained in the position and place that I have described until dark.
I did not notice when she left.
his
WILLIAM X HANNA.
mark.
Declared to before me this 4th day of June, A. ID. 1863.
OUMOND ID. MALCOLM,
Notary Public, Bahama8

Page 246

OP2ERATIONS OF THE CRUISEE~SUNION.
246

Declaration of Theodore Cavillier, of Jame8 Point, I8land of Eleuthera.

	I live at a settlement called James Point, on t~e island of Eleuthera,
one of the Bahama Islands. On Saturday last, the 30th day of May
last, I was out in a boat fishing on the southern side of the settlement.
The settlement is bounded on the north and south by the sea, and the
distance acrossthat is, from the north to the southis about 2 miles.
While 1 was fishing I heard the reports of several guns. I immediately
went on shore on the southern side of the settlement, proceeded to.a
hill, nearly over to the northern side, and climbed up a tree~ in order
that I might see the vessel from which I supposed [guns] were being
fired. On looking out to sea I saw two steamers, one of them having
paddle boxes and steering down outside of a .reef which is about 300
or 400 yards from the shore, and the other without paddle j~oxes also
steaming down outside of the reef about 500 or G00yards from the first
steamer. The steamer farthest out was firing at the inner one. I could
see the smoke come from her side and heard the report of the guns as
they went off. She would fire first from one side a broadside and then
turn and fire from the other side. Icould see the shot from these guns
fall on the land about 300 yards from where I was up the tree. I was
about half a mile from the settlement. On seeing the shot fall so near,
I jumped from the tree, ran to the southern shore and got into my boat
to come home. While I was coming down to my house in the boat, 1
heard a gun go off in the direction of the two steamers, and a cannon
ball passed over my head and fell in the sea about 30 yards from the
boat in which I was. I fell down in the boat from the shock. On Sat-
urday evetiing after I came home I went over to the northern side of
the settlement, on the beach. I saw a steamer on shore on the reef and
one lying to about 500 or 600 yards from the one on the reef. They were
the same steamers that I had seen running down outside in the morning
when I was up the tree. I did not stay long on the beach, but soon
afterwards returned home. The steamer that was lying to had an Amer-
ican flag flying. I do not know when she left..
ha
THEODORE X CAYILLIER.
mark.

Declared to before me this 4th day of June, A. D. 1863.
ORMoND D. MALCOLM,
Notary Public, Bahamas.


Declaration of Charle8 B. Burn8ide, of the City of Naeeau, gentleman.

	That the declarant was, on the 4th day of June instant, at a town
on the island of Eleuthera, known as James Rest, in the vicinity
of James Point; that he, the declarant, had heard that shot and
shell thrown from a vessel of war on the north side of the island had
struck the ground near the town, and Samuel Mackey, a resident of
the town, pointed out to him, at a distance of about 200 yards from
the dwelling houses in the town, trees which had been destroyed, and
the marks on the earth and stones caused by the missiles which had
struck them; that the declarant, whilst inspecting the spots pointed
out by the said Samuel Mackey, picked up the smaller of the two pieces
of shell hereto attached, and Samuel Mackey picked up, in the presence
of this declarant, the other piece; that both of such pieces remained i

Page 247

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	247

the possession of this declarant, and were by him delivered to the
notary public, to be attached to this declaration, which he, the notary,
has done, in the declarauts presence.
C.	B. BURNSIDE.
	Declared before me this 10th day of June, A. D. 1863.
ORMOND D. MALCOLM,
Notary Public, Bahamas.

Declaration of Jane Ifanna.

	I live at James Point, in the island of Eleuthera. On Saturday
morning, the 30th day of May last, I was in my house at James Point,
when I heard guns firing from the sea. I looked out of the door of my
house, the northern one. The house is on a hill about 2 miles from the
shore, on the northern side of the settlement. I can see the sea from
the door. I saw a steamer passing up along the shore, firing guns. I
left my house and went on a hill near, when I saw another steamer
ahead, at which the other was firing. I watched them for some time,
when the inner steamer turned and came down. I then saw the one
that had been firing also turn and commence to fire at her. Several of
the shot I saw fall.on the land. I entered my house, when I heard the
report of a gull, and something struck the roof of the house. I looked
out of the door and saw the steamer that had been firing before oppo-
site my house and clouded with smoke.
	I went over~ to the northern shore in the evening and saw one of the
steamers ashore, and the other, the one that had been firing the guns,
lying to, outside of her, with a flag flying. I do not know the flag of
what nation it was; it had red and white stripes.
JANE HANNA.
	Declared to before me this 4th day of June, 1863.
ORMOND D. MALCOLM,
Notary Public, Bahamas.

Declaration of Thoma8 Mackey, Bahama I8lands, Eleuthera.

	Be it remembered that on the 4th day of June, in the year of our
Lord 1863, personally came and appeared before me, Ormond Druinnie
Malcolm, notary public, by lawful authority appointed, duly admitted
and sworn, residing and practicing in the city of Nassau, in the island
of New Pi~ovidence, one of the said Bahama Islands, Thomas Mackey,
of James Point, in the island of Eleuthera, one of the said Bahama
Islands, planter, who, of his own free will and accord, did solemnly
declare (such declaration being made in pursuance of the laws of the
Bahama Islands made for substituting a declaration in lieu of an oath
in certain cases) in manner following, that is to say:
	On Saturday morning last, the 30th day of May past, I was out fish-
ing on the southern side of the settlement called James Point, on the
island of Eleuthera. I am a resident of the settlement. I was out
fishing with James Hanna, another resident of the settlement. Just
as we started to return home, about 1 oclock, I heard the reports of
several heavy guns. The sound came from the northeast, across the
island of Eleuthera. When the boat was about 3 miles from the settle-
ment, and about half a mile from the shore, on the southern side, I
heard the report of another gun, and saw a cannon shot come over and
fall on the land. ,We kept on in the boat, and, when about half a mil

Page 248

248	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

from the settlement, I again heard the report of a gun and saw a cannon
shot fall in the water about 60 or 70 yards ahead of the boat in which
we were, and very near a boat in which Theodore Cavillier, of the same
settlement, was.
	After II landed from fishing I walked over to the beach on the north-
ern side of the settlement, which beach is about 2 miles from the south-
ern shore. Upon reaching there, I saw a steamer on the reef about
400 yards from the shore. I also saw a steamer lying to, outside of the
reef about 600 or 700 yards from it; she had an American flag flying.
I could see guns on board of her run out through the portholes. I saw
two boats come from her and row around the steamer that was on shore.
Officers were in the boats; they had gold lace around their caps. The
steamer left about 8 oclock that night.
THOMAS MACKEY.
	Declared to before me this 4th day of June, A. D. 1863.

ORMOND D. MALCOLM,
Rotary Public. Bahamas.

Letter from Hon. 3. K. Mason, Confederate commissioner at London, to her Britannic Maj estys
secretary of state, transmitting papers in relation to the affair of the steamer Margaret
and Jessie.

24 UPPER SEYMOUR STREET,
Portman Square, July 10, 1863.
	MY LORD: I have the honor to transmit herewith an original pro-
test made by the master and crew of the Confederate steamship Mar-
garet and Jessie, transmitted to me by tht~ commercial agent of the
Confederate States at Nassau.
	It sets forth that this steamer, laden with cotton, and a large number
of passengers, whilst on her voyage from Clarleston, S. C., to Nassau,
and near the island of Eleuthera, a British possession in the Bahamas,
was chased by a United States war steamer believed to be the Rhode
Island. That the Margaret and Jessie continued her course toward the
said island, thus pursued and fired at from time to time until she had
approached within 300 yards of the beach; fearing to run nearer, she
changed her course, coasting along the island, at the distance of from
300 to 400 yards from the shore; that notwithstanding the Confederate
ship was thns, beyond mistake or dispute, within British jurisdiction,
the United States war vessel continued the pursuit, having changed
her course to conform to that of the Confederate steamer, continuing to
fire shot and shell until the latter was struck, disabled, and sunk; at
the time of which occurrence the Rhode Island was so near to the shore
that a number of shot from her struck the shore inland, cutting the
trees and plowing up the soil.
	I am further informed by our commercial agent that measures were
taken by him to procure the testimony of many residents of the island
who witnessed the afihir, and which, if received, I shall have the honor
to transmit to your lordship. In the meantime, the protest herewith
will be sufficient at least to lay the foundation of proper enquiry on
the part of her Majestys Government, and if the facts are found cor-
rectly stated, will establish a claim for adequate compensation to the
owners and others who have sustained injury by this outrage.
I have the honor to be, your lordships very obedient servant,
J.	M. MASON.
	Hight Honorable EARL IIUSSELL
Her Britannic Majestys Secret rtry of State for Foreign Affairs

Page 249

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	249

Letter from her Eritannic Majestys secretary of state to Hon. 3. M. Mason, Confederate com-
missioner at London, regarding redress by the U. 8. Government in the case of the steamer
Margaret and 3essie.

FOREIGN OFFICE, July 10, 18G3.

	SIu: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of yonr letter of
the 6th instant, enclosing an original protest made by the master and
crew of the steamer Margaret and Jessie, with regard to the damage
sustained by that vessel from being fired into by a United States vessel
of war.
	A copy of the protest has also reached her Majestys Government
through other sources, and they learn from Lord Lyons, who has been
in communication with the U. S. Government on the subject, that he
has been assured by Mr. Seward that if it shall appear on enquiry that
any act of hostility was committed on the occasion in question, within
the jurisdiction of Great Britain, the act will be disavowed, and redress
be promptly given.
	Her Majestys Government will therefore await the result of that
enquiry.
I have the honor to be, sir, etc.,
RUSSELL.
	J. M. MAsoN, Esq.


Opinion of court of enquiry convened April 7, 1864, at Boston, for the purpose of enquiring
into an alleged violation of British territorial jurisdiction by the U. S. S. Rhode Island,
under command of Commander 8. D. Trenchard, May 30, 1863, in chasing and tiring at the
steamer Margaret and Jessie in English waters.


	The court, in pursuance of the order convening the court, find the
material facts which they deem to be established by the evidence to be:
	That on the 30th of May last the U. S. S. Rhode Island, then and now
under the command of Commander Stephen D. Trenchard, while cruising
between Abaco and the island of Eleuthera, fell in with and gave chase
to the steamerMargaret and Jessie, saidvessel apparently aiming to reach
Nassau, New Providence, which vessel it was the object and duty of
the commander of the Rhode Island to overhaul and examine if possible.
The courses of both vessels were to the southward, and eventually, as
the low island of Eleuthera was approached, westerly, the chase haul-
ing up as the land was approached in the hope that by superiority in
speed she would cross the bows of the Rhode Island and ultimately
escape.
	That at about 2:20 p. in., the Margaret and Jessie being from 1 mile
to 14 miles inshore of the Rhode Island, liaving received a shot, the last
of a number fired from fhe Rhode Island during the chase, which
appears to have struck some portion of her machinery, causing the
escape of steam, kept away from the land, and was then run on the
reef and deserted; that during the entire chase she showed no colors,
but on her stern was found painted Margaret and Jessie, S. ~
showing her to belong to a State in rebellion.
	That Commander Trenchard was desirous of avoiding any infraction
of territorial jurisdiction and cautioned the pilot to avoid taking the
ship nearer than 4 or 5 miles of the shore and to apprise him if that
distance was reached, or if the chase should get within 3 miles of the
land, but that no such intimation was in fact given to him by the pilots.
It is proven by the concurrent testimony of the witnesses who could
t3stify on that point that at no time of the chase was the Rhode Island
nearer than from 4 to 4A miles from the land, and that the Margaret an

Page 250

250	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION

Jessie was at no time nearer than 34 miles from the shore, until after
she had borne up to run on the reef, at which time the Rhode Island
relinquished the chase.
	The court is aware of the difficulty of determi~iing distances under
circumstances which characterize the case in question, and that neces-
sarily a diversity of opinion in computing distances from ship to shore
will exist. The testimony in this case is, however, very decided on that
point, and from it the court can arrive at no other conclusion than that
at no period of the chase of the Miargaret and Jessie by the l3hode
Island was the former vessel nearer the land of Eleuthera than 3 miles
or more, or the latter vessel nearer than 4 or 44 miles from the same.
	The court is of opinion that Commander Trenchard was desirous and
anxious to avoid any violation of British territorial jurisdiction while
chasing the Margaret and Jessie, and are also of opinion that in the
case in question no violation of the territorial jurisdiction of Great
Britain was committed.
SAML L. BREESE,
Rear-Admiral and President.
HARVEY JEWELL,
Judge-Advocate.


Report ~f Commander Trenchard, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Rhode
Island, of commendable conduct on the part of Acting Masters Mate
Rogers and Master at Arms Luscomb.
U.	S. S. RHODE ISLAND,
Off Stirrup Cay, June 1, 1863.
	SIR:	I beg leave to report, in order that it may be brought to the
notice of the Department, the highly commendable conduct of Acting
Masters Mate William Rogers and that of the master at arms, Richard
Luscomb, on the morning of the 6th of March, 1863, while at sea off the
island of Cuba.
	The vessel had been engaged in target practice, and upon returning
the spare shells one of them fell from the slings into the shell locker,
detaching the leaden patch and ignitiiig the fuse, while coming in
contact with others in the locker.
	The master at arms, with great coolness, seized the shell and handed
it to Mr. Rogers, who, with great presence of iniiid and personal risk,
rushed up the ladder with it and threw it overboard, thereby prevent-
ing an accident of such a character as might have resulted very
seriously.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
STEPHEN D. TRENCHARD,
Commander.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES, U. S. Navy,
Commanding West India Squadron.


instructions of the Secretary of the Navy to Commodore Jiiardner, U. S.
Navy, appointed to command West India Squadron.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 1, 1863.
	SIR:	You will proceed in the U. S. steam sloop Ticonderoga to Havana
or to any locality in the West Indies where you may fall in with Actin

Page 251

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	251

Rear-Admiral Charles Wilkes and relieve him of the command of the
West India Squadron, hoisting your flag as acting rear-admiral on
taking command of the squadron on board the Th.~onderoga, which will
be your flagship.
	The West Jndia Squadron will for the present consist of the steam
sloops Ticonderoga and Juniata, steamers Santiago de Cuba, Octorara,
Tioga, Alabama, Rhode Island, and Mercedita, bark Gemsbok, and ships
Shepherd Knapp and National Guard, the latter as a coal and store
ship.
	The Vanderbilt, which has been used for some time past by Acting
Rear-Admiral Charles Wilkes as his flagship, was ordered to pursue
the Alabama, and will proceed on that duty.
	The Wachusett and Sonoma, being in need of repair, you will order
home, if they have not already been, the former to Boston, the latter
to Philadelphia. You are authorized to send any vessel of the squadron
to a Northern port for repairs when actually necessary. The Depart-
ment can not at present increase the West India Squadron.
	The primary object of the West India Squadron is the protection of
our commerce from the depredations of piratical or rebel cruisers and
the capture or destruction of such craft. Next to this is the inter-
cepting and breaking up of the illicit traffic with the insurgents by
capturing and sending in for adjudication vessels overtaken on the
high seas that are manifestly engaged in it.
	Should the Alabama and Florida have left the West Indies at any
time, two at least of the most powerful and swiftest steamers of your
squadron should be directed to follow them. If the ]Jlercedita should
be selected for this service,it will be necessary to detach her from the
special service on which she is at present engagedthat is, convoying
the outward-bound California steamers from the island of Mariguana
to the island of Navassa, and in that case a steamer must be detailed to
supply her place. The Connecticut, which was employed in convoying
the homeward-bound California steamers, has been relieved from duty,
as those steamers come by Cape St. [San] Antonio, over which route
convoy is considered unnecessary.
	The proceedings of the West India Squadron heretofore have not
been unattended with embarrassing features, and complaintssome of
them with justiceof violations of neutral rights and neutral waters
have not been infrequent. llarmonioas feeling between our squadron
and the colonial authorities and the navy officers of her Majesty has
not always existed as it should between the representatives of friendly
powers. I am glad to say, however, that through prudence and for-
bearance a better feeling now seems to prevail, which, it is hoped, may
be cultivated and perpetuated.
	A strict regard for neutral rights and respect for neutral waters are
earnestly impressed upon you. It is desirable that the British colonial
ports should not be visited by the vessels of your squadron if it can be
avoided, and when necessary to enter them, the established regulations,
whatever they maybe, mustbe complied with. If the treatmentreceived
be such as to warrant complaint, the facts and circumstances can be
communicated to the Department.
	It is further desirable that a mutual friendly feeling should be culti-
vated and maintained between our naval officers and those of other
powers, and especially, in view of past irritating occurrences, between
the officers of the West India Squadron and the naval officers and
colonial authorities of Great Britain with whom they may come in
contact. The practice, in a liberal and generous spirit, of all customary
courtesies and civilities can alone allay the irritations which hav

Page 252

252	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

arisen and preserve friendship. Such a practice has been mutually
enjoined heretofore by the Department and her Majestys representa-
tive at Washington upon the officers of the respective Governments.
Under the present state of affairs there may be occasions when your
patience and forbearance may be taxed, but I have confidence that
your prudence and intelligence will gui(le you into the proper course.
	The observance of the neutral proclamation of Great Britain, as well
as of other powers, with regard to the nse of their waters to belligerents,
must never be lost sight of. You and all nuder your command are
strictly enjoined not to trespass upon the waters of neutral nations.
	This Government adheres to, recognizes, and insists upon, the prin-
ciple that the maritime jurisdiction of every nation covers a full marine
league from its coast, and acts of hostility or of authority within a
marine league of any foreign country by a naval officer of the United
States are strictly forbidden, and if practiced will certainly bring upon
such officer the displeasure of his Government.
	It is not lawful to chase, fire at, bring to, or capture, any vessel
within the waters of a neutral; nor is it proper to make a convenience in
any manner of neutral territory for the purpose of exercising in its
vicinity the belligerent right of search or capture. A capture of a
neutral vessel, made after standing off and on in neutral waters or
lying in wait within the same for the purpose, although the capture
may have been actually made beyond the neutral jurisdiction, might
not be recognized as valid; and the right of search can not be prop-
erly exercised when it is known previously that, whatever the event
of the search, the capture would not be lawful.
	Your attehtion is particularly called to the circular letter* of this
Department of August 18, 1862 (copy enclosed), recapitulating the
instructions that had been given from time to time, and also the restric-
tions and precautions to be observed by our squadrons and cruisers.
These instructions, restrictions, and precautions must be faithfully
complied with.
	I have transmitted to you the various recently printed general orders
and circulars of the Department, also copies of the laws of the last
Congress.
	There will, in all probability, be a persistent effort on the part of the
rebel privateers to capture a treasure ship, and hence you will exer-
cise constant vigilance for the protection of the Aspiuwall steamers.
	The information received from abroad, and particularly from Great
Britain, indicates extraordinary activity on the part of rebel agents in
purchasing and sending out steamers and other craft, chiefly, I have
no doubt, to run the blockade. But some of these vessels are of a
description that will bear armament, and in all probability they will be
converted into cruisers to depredate on our commerce, possibly to make
a descent upon the coast at some unprotected point. Should this lat-
ter scheme be attempted, the marauders will be likely to rendezvous,
preparatory to offensive operations, somewhere in the West Indies.
Your attention will be given to any extraordinary collection of suspi-
cious vessels in any quarter.
	Dissatisfaction has been expressed that our vessels of war on several
occasions have fired shotted guns instead of blank cartridges across
the bows of vessels approaching the blockaded coast. The recognized
practice at sea of ascertaining the character of a suspicious vessel, or
of expressing a desire to communicate by firing a signal gun (blank
cartridge) should be adhered to.
* See Vol. I, p. 417.

Page 253

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
253

	The Department desires you to communicate to it frequently and
fully the movements and proceedings of your squadron, and to trans-
mit to it, monthly, boarding returns of the seve~al vessels, and, semi-
monthly, a memorandum of the service on which they are respectively
engaged.
	The ship National Guard sailed from New York recently with a cargo
of coal for Cape Haitien Harbor, where she is to remain subject to the
orders of the commander of the West India Squadron.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Commodore JAi~s L. LARDNER,
Appointed to command West India Squadron, Philadelphia.



Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S.
Wavy, commanding West India Squadron, to transfer his command to
Commodore Lardner, U. S. Navy.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 1, 1863.

	SiR: Commodore James L. Lardner has been appointed to relieve
you of the command of the West India Squadron, and has been
instructed to proceed with this view in the U. S. steam sloop Ticon-
deroga to Havana, or to such other locality as you may most likely be
found.
	On his falling in with you, you will turn over to him the command of
the West India Squadron, strikilig your flag, together with any unex-
ecuted orders received by you.fiom the Department, and extracts from
consular dispatches furnished you from time to time, in reference to
vessels suspected of being in the interests of the insurgents.
	You can take passage to the United States in either the Wachusett
or Sonoma.
I am, respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES, U. S. Navy,
Commanding West India Squadron.



Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Baldwin, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Vanderbilt, to proceed in search of C. S. steamers
Alabama and Florida.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 1, 1863.

	SIR: I transmit herewith articles cut from newspapers in relation to
the movements and depredations of the Alabama and Florida. The
published statement of Captain Potter, of the ship Oneida, and the
published correspondence from Pernambuco, embrace all the informa-
tion the Department possesses concerning the recent movements of
those two vessels. You will proceed without delay in pursuit of the
Alabama and Florida. The Department relies upon your judgment
and discretion so to direct your course as to overtake and capture or
destroy one or both of those semipiratical craft

Page 254

254	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	Keep the Department advised of your movements as opportunity
may offer.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Commander CHAS. II. BALDWIN, U. S. Navy,
Gommanding U. S. S. Vanderbilt, West Indies.



Letter from the acting U. S. consul-general at Havana, Cuba, to Acting
Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron,
of the movements of United States and other vessels in the vicinity of
that port.

CONSULATE-GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Havana, June 2, 1863.
	DEAR SIR: I had the pleasure to receive a few days since, your
esteemed letter of 17th ultimo by the Pasaro del Oceano. I am sorry
that I did not send you the official dispatches by the English steamer
on her trip of 7th of May. I have since sent you by the U. S. steamers
Rhode Island and Santiago de Cuba all the dispatches and mails I had
for yourself and your sqaadron up to the dates of their departure, and
will forward by the Pasaro to-morrow all that has come since, in a pack-
age addressed to you at St. Thomas, but will request the agent of that
steamer to leliver it to the Vanderbilt, or any United States war ves-
sel calling for it at sea, or at any of the intermediate ports shi~ touches
at. The Roanoke is expected here from New York next Friday, the 5th,
and anything there may be by her for you and the squadron will go by
the Maisi on the 12th. The British steamer will leave here before, but
from the tenor of your letter I judge there is a better chance of the
letters reaching you by the Spanish boat, and besides, the British mail
steamer is not disposed to take charge of any mails or dispatches from
or for this office.
	The Juniata, Commander Stevens, received your orders by the Pasaro.
She sailed on the afternoon of the 28th in pursuit of the British steamer
Victor (Anglo-Confederate, formerly the American steamer Hero), and
it is reported here that she captured the Victor, but I havereceived no
information of a reliable nature on the subject. Captain Stevens told
me he was bound to Key West to take the Sonoma to New York. No
news has reached me since from him or Commander Clitz.
	The British steamers Ruby and Neptune sailed hence on the 12th of
May for Mobile and returned on the 26th, both laden with cotton.
They experienced bad weather, and the Ruby had to throw from 70 to
100 bales of cotton overboard to lighten her. When they sailed from
this port the Sonoma went after them, but they escaped. The Ruby
sailed again yesterday at 5 p. m. The Neptune is getting ready. The
Soler sailed on 13th May, but some of her flues burst, killing three men,
and she had to come back into the port. Half a dozen flues were taken
out, and she again sailed the 22d. The Juniata, Captain Stevens, went
out in pursuit immediately, but her steam suddenly went down to about
4 pounds and could not overtake the other. We have since learned of
the Solers safe arrival in Mobile. Her cargo was a most valuable one.
The steamer Yita sailed the 16th and the Cuba the 19th. On the even-
ing of the last-mentioned date also went out the Spanish tugboat Union

Page 255

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION~	255

I have information that the Nita got into Mobile, and left on her return
here the 23d, some three hours before the Neptune. She has not arrived.
It is probable she has been captured or lost. The ~Union was captured
by the Huntsville, and the Cuba (with a cargo that cost here upward of
$400,000), being hard pressed by the Dc Soto, was set fire to by her
captain and was totally destroyed. Her officers and crew were taken
as prisoners to Key West. The Octorara captured the English steamer
Eagle, from Nassau, and took her into Key West. The Alice (formerly
Matagorda) sailed the 18th with a very valuable cargo and arrived in
Mobile. I have heard she was to leave that port about the 27th; she
has not arrived. The Atlantic also left this port. She went to Nassau
to complete her cargo for the rebels. The old Spanish steamer Ha ban.
ero is being fitted out here for the same business. I am also advised the
Spanish steamer Isabel (consort of the Habanero) has been purchased
by the Confederate traders at Cienfuegos and will be brought here to be
prepared and loaded to run the blockade.
	We have had many arrivals and departures of small sailing vessels
from and to Mobile, St. Marks, and other Southern ports. The com-
manding officers of the Juniata and Sonoma have been advised by me
of these things wherever I had the opportunity to communicate with
them, and by every conveyance I have transmitted information of the
movements of blockade runners to Rear-Admiral Bailey at Key West.
In a dispatch to the State Department I have told the Government of
the urgent necessity of having at least two swift steamers to watch
these waters and break up this contraband trade. The Juniata came
here with the reputation of being somewhat fast, but I believe she can
not go more I~han 8 knots. Most of the steamers engaged in the busi-
ness of blockade running, as you well know, have greater speed than
the cruisers which are to catch them. The Iugenie, alias General Buck-
ncr, was caught by the B. B. Cuyler off Mobile with cotton~ the Chero-
kee destroyed at Charleston.
	Mr. Hall, our acting consul at Matauzas, wrote me, under date of the
28th ultimo. as follows:
	The British ship Trinidad, of and from Greenock, arrived here to-day, and I have
been told that the master reports having seen the Florida, alias Oreto, in the Bahama
Channel two days ago. He was close enough to her for two of his men, who have
been (sailed) in her to make her out. The steamer, I hear, was hove to at the time.
I give you these reports as I received them, and if I can obtain any further particu-
lars I will communicate them, although I do not place much reliance on the source
from whence they come.

	Returning to the Spanish steamers Habanero and Isabel, these boats,
like the Soler, were purchased by a joint stock company. I know that
many persons, not only in Havana, but [in] other places, both on the north
and south of the island, have been offered shares in a certain company
which will purchase schooners and steamers to trade with the block-
aded ports. Two or three fast steamers of our Navy would soon put a
stop to the companys golden dreams. I have given you this long
account for the purpose of posting you in regard to the movements of
the most important of the blockade runners since the date of my last
dispatch, 7th ultimo.
	I enclose a slip from the Siglo, containing news from the Mississippi
also the last three dates from New Orleans.
	We had some days ago news of the surrender of Puebla, with all the
garrison, 24 generals, 900 officers, and 17,000 men, as having come in
the French man-of-war steamer Darien. It is credited by some and
doubted by others. The British steamer will bring as the facts on
the 5th

Page 256

256	OPERATIONS OP THE ORUISERS~-UNION.

	Please to present my regards to Commander Baldwin, Mr. Stuart,
and your other officers, and hoping you are all well,
I remain, very respectfully and truly, yout~ obedient servant,
THOS. SAVAGE,
Acting Consul- General.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WTLXES,
Commanding United States West India Squadron, St. Thomas.



Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. ]Iliohican,
regarding the English barks Castor and Agrippina, accompanied by cor-
respondence with the U. S. consul at Bahia, Brazil.

U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Bahia, June 3, 1863.
	SIR: I herewith enclose you letters from the U. S. consul at this port;
also a copy of my letter to him.
	I have to state to the honorable Secretary of the Navy that on the
26th of May, at 12:40 p. in., the English bark Castor got underway and
stood out of the harbor. We weighed anchor also and stood out in
company, intending to capture her as soon as she was 3 miles from land.
At 1:20 the guard ship fired two guns with blank cartridges to bring
the Castor to anchor. She then tacked ship and stood off and on the
town. I also wore ship and stood off and on the town. At 5:30 the
Castor anchored under the stern of the Brazilian corvette for protection.
I then anchored outside of her and near by. Since that time she has
not attempted to leave this port, although I was compelled to be absent
three days on a cruise. I understand that the English consul says she
shall not leave this port until an English frigate arrives to convoy her
to her destination or out of reach of any American man-of-war.
	The English bark Agrippina is also in this port laden with coal, sup-
posed to be for rebel vessels. It is also reported that she has a quali-
tity of powder on board. In consequence of information received from
the U. S. consul on the 27th ultimo that the rebel steamers were in a
port to the southward of this place, 1 immediately got a pilot on board
and proceeded to the ports of Morro, S~o Paulo, Camamu, and St.
George island, all of which are fine ports for coaling and but seldom
visited except by coasters. I did not find any piratical vessels at these
ports, nor had they visited any of them. Not being able to get any
traces of them, I returned to Bahia on the 30th May.
	Much credit is due to our worthy consul at this place, Mr. Thomas
F. Wilson, for the exertions he has made to obtain information relative
to the movements of these piratical vessels, and for obtaining supplies
for the Mo hi can. Provisions can be had at this port at reasonable
prices and in any quantity required.
	I shall sail in the morning on a cruise toward the line to intercept
vessels bound home from Rio, the Pacific, an(1 the East Indies. If I can
get no traces of the pirates in this direction, I shall return to Bahia for
news and then go south as far as Rio, and if I can get no information
at that point I shall be at a loss what to do. Will the Department
please advise me on the subject ~? Bahia is the most central place, and
I shall call there monthly for my letters

Page 257

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSIJNION.
257
	The officers and crew of this vessel continue to enjoy good health,
and we are in daily hopes to fall in with some of the pirates.
I am, very respectfully, yonr obedient servai4,
	0. S. GLISSOK,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Captain, U. S~ Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosures.]
U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Bahia, ]iiliay 24, 1863.
	Siu: I have this moment arrived from St. Vincent and am in chase
of the Alabama and Florida. Will you do me the favor to give me all
the information you may have in relation to the movements of these
piratical vessels or any others that may have been fitted out as priva-
teers on this coast. My boat is at your service and I shall be glad to
welcome you on board of the Mohican.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	0. 5. GLISSON,
	THOMAS F. WILSON,	Captain, U. S. Navy.
U.	S. Consul, Bahia.


CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Bahia, ]iliay 25, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your dispatch
of this morning asking me for any information in my possession in
regard to the movements of the pirates Alabama and Florida or any
other piratical steamers that may have entered this port.
	On the 11th instant the pirate Alabama came to anchor in this port,
flying the flag adopted by those who are in rebellion against the
Government of the United States of America, and remained in this
port until the morning of the 21st instant, when she put to sea. Dur-
ing her stay in this port she took in about 30 tons of coal, in addition
to what she had taken from American vessels at sea, and a large supply
of provisions. During the night of the 12th instant the pirate Georgia
entered this port, bearing the same flag as the Alabama, and remained
in this port until the night of the 22d instant, during which time she
took in about 200 tons of coal and a supply of provisions.
	I used every means in my power to prevent these vessels from obtain-
ing coal and supplies, and also to detain them as long as possible in
port, in hopes that some of our war vessels would arrive and catch
them both.
	Shortly after the arrival of the Georgia I was informed that the
English bark C~astor, which had arrived in this port several days prior
to the Georgia, purporting to have put in on account of stress of
weather, and entered at the custom-house as laden with coal, had
actually come in to furnish the Alabama and Georgia with munitions of
war and coal. I was also informed that she had cleared from the port of
Liverpool, England, for Shanghai, China, to call at this port for orders
with a cargo reported to consist of coal, two 100-pounder rifled cannon,
and other munitions of war, purporting to be for the Emperor of China.
I immediately informed the president of this province of the supposed
character of the cargo of the bark fiastor and ~the purposes for which
N W IlvOL 111

Page 258

258
OPETIATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNIOIT.
I believed it was intended, and protested against her being allowed to
supply the Alabama or Georgia with munitions of war in this port, in
violation of the neutrality of the Imperial Government of Brazil.
Althongh the president of this province acknowledged the receipt of
my dispatch on the 15th instant, at 6 oclock p. in., yet the bark Castor
was allowed to haul alongside of the steamer Georgia at dark on that
evening, and remained alongside all night, discharging her cargo into
theosteanier Georgia. At 6 oclock the next morning she was ordered
to haul off and did so. After using every possible endeavor to ascer-
tain all the facts in regard to the cargo of the bark Castor, I am firmly
convinced that she is one of the vessels laden in England with coals
and munitions of war to supply the privateer Georgia, and that she
entered this port for that purpose. I am strengthened in this impres-
~sion by the fact that the captain of the bark Castor had in his posses-
sion and delivered a letter in this port to the commander of the steamer
Georgia, W. L. Maury, late lieutenant in the U. S. Navy. I am also
satisfied that the bark Castor has now on board, hid under the coal,
two large rifled cannon and other munitions of war, with which she
will supply the pirates Alabama or Georgia, or both of them, and that
she will leave this port for that purpose.
	I have applied in vain to the president of this province to have the
Castor searched, in order to discern whether she has on board articles
contraband of war. I therefore respectfully suggest that should the
bark Castor attempt to leave this port that you should follow her to
sea, beyond the jurisdiction of the Government of Brazil, and search
her, and should any articles contraband of war be found, that you
capture her as a prize to the Government of the United States.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
THOMAS F. WILSoN,
U.	S. Consul.
Captain 0. 5. GLISSON,
Commanding U. S. S. ][fohiean.



CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Bahia, hay 2G, 1863.
	Sin:	Since my dispatch to you of yesterday it has been rumored in
the street that the cannon alleged to be on the bark Castor were thrown
overboard during last night. Whether there is any truth in this rumor
I am unable to say, but consider it my duty to apprise you of the
report.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
THOMAS F. WILSON,
U.	S. Consul.
	Capt. 0. 5. GLISSON, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Mohican.



CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Bahia, May 27, 1863.
	Sin: From information which I have received I am led to believe
that the rebel steamer Georgia has gone into some one of the ports
couth of this on this coast for the purpose of awaiting the English bar

Page 259

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
259
Castor, to obtain from lier munitions of war. I would therefore respect-
fully suggest that you should search all the ports in this vicinity, and
to enable you to do so, I send on board a first-class coast pilot.
	It is reported to me to be the opinion of Lloyds agent in this city
that the Alabama is cruising off this coast to the southward.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
THOMAS F. WILSON,
U.	S. Consul.
	Capt. 0. S. GLISSON, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Mohican.



Report of Commander Preble, U. S. Navy, of assuming command of the
U.	S. ship St. Louis.
U.	S. SLOOP OF WAR ST. LouIS,

Lisbon, June 3, 1863.
	SIR:	Agreeably to your order of March 20, I have this day taken
command of this ship.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEG. HENRY PREI3LE,

Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretar~ of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commander Cooper, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Con-
necticut, of arrival of that vessel at New York.

	U.	S. S. CONNECTICUT,
9fl~ Ellis Island, New York, June 3, 1863.
	SIR:	I respectfully report the arrival of this ship, in obedience to
yonr orders of the 6th of last month.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
G.	H. COOPER,

Commanding U. S. S. Connecticut.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of the commandant navy yard, Ililiare Island, Cal., of the return
of the U. S. S. Saginaw, Lieutenant-Commander Hopkins, U. S. Navy,
from a cruise in Puget Sound and vicinity.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE,

Navy Yard, Mare Island, Cal., June 3, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you of the arrival of the Saginaw
from a short cruise in Puget Sound and in its vicinity.
	Lieutenant-Commander Hopkins visited all the principal ports in
Washington Territory and the English port of Esquimalt, in Vancouver
Island

Page 260

260	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	He reports that the secessionists in that region since the capture of
the schooner Chapman at San Francisco have taken no active or open
measures to fit out privateers under the so-call~d Confederate flag, and
that, as far as he could learn, no steamers or other vessels plying in
the sound were capable of being converted into efficient cruisers or
privateers.
	A small steamer, said to be a long time due from England, had excited
the suspicion of her being bought by secessionists for hostile purposes
against our flag, but nothing definite or tangible in relation to her
could be obtained, except her being illy adapted for war purposes.
	When at Esquimalt Lieutenant-Commander Hopkins was unoffi-
cially informed that the Saginaw, after the lapse of twenty-four hours
in that port, would be ordered to leave. Anticipating this contingency,
he had made arrangements before entering the port to leave within the
prescribed time.
	The Saginaw requires some slight repairs to her machinery, which
will detain her here a week.
	Herewith enclosed are copies of communications from the U. S. con-
sul, Victoria; from P. K. Hubbs, esq., district attorney, Washington
Territory; and V. Smith, esq., of Port AngelesI, 2, * and 3~*
I remain, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
THOS. 0. SELFRIDGE,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosure.]

CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Victoria, Vancouver Island, May 13, 1863.
	SIR: The appearance of the war steamer under your command in the
harbor of Esquimalt and your visit to this city was truly gratifying
to the loyal citizens of the United States residing here; particularly
was this the case to those acquainted with the facts of the efforts made
by the secessionists and Confederate sympathizers during the last few
months to secure a vessel for the purpose of fitting it out to prey upon
American commerce. That such an effort was made and its consumuma-
tion nearly perfected is a fact generally known and conceded.
	A plot also existed for seizing the U. S. revenue cutter Shubrick in
this harbor; failed, however (being attempted), for the want of a leader
in whom the banditti could confide. Many of the persons engaged in
these schemes have now left for the gold mines of British Columbia and
for San Francisco.
	There is still in this city a rebel organization, which has had several
meetings within the last few weeks. They are awaiting, it seems from
rumors, the receipt of letters of marque from the President of the
so-called Confederate States.
	At this moment an English steamer called Fusi Yama is expected in
this port from England, and it is rumored that she is to be purchased
for a privateer. It is also rumored that she has a large quantity of
munitions of war on board. She is reported over 700 tons burden and
a fast sailer. The parties to whom she is consigned are English, and
are strongly suspected of having been engaged in the efforts previously
made for fitting out a privateer.

5Unimportant

Page 261

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	261

	Since the seizure of the Chapman at San Francisco, the news of which
caused quite a sensation here, matters relating to fitting out a privateer
have in a measure died away, but parties are still h~re known to have
been connected with the scheme and who are being closely waLched.
	There is nothing now in this port to excite suspicion. The steamer
Thames is still at Barclay Sound. She has made two trips here within
the last two months, and has taken a large number of men from this
city to Barclay Sound.
	The officials here were ready to warn off the Saginaw. I assured them
the commander would save them the trouble, as it was understood she
would leave before the twenty-four hours expired.
	The California steamer is expected to-morrow. Will write again in a
few days.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
ALLEN FRANCIS,
U.	S. Consul.
	Captain W. E. HOPKINS,
Commander War Steamer Saginaw.


Report of 6~ommodore J. 19. Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Ticonderoga, of his sailing to take command of West India Squadron.

U. S. S. TIcONBEROGA,
Capes of Delaware, June 6, 1863.
	Su~: The compass commission finished the adjustment of the com-
passes of the Ticonderoga yesterday evening, and at daylight this morn-
ing I proceeded to sea.
Very respectfuly, your obedieiit servant,
J.	L. LARD~ER,
	Commodore, Appointed to Command West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
	Secretary of the Navy.


Instructions of the Secretary of the Navy to L1ommander MeDougal, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. S. Wyoming, in view of the probable cruise of
C. S. steamers Alabama and Florida to. the East indies.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 6, 1863.
	SIR: On the 26th of January last the Department wrote to you con-
cerning the piratical steamer Alabama, and suggested the probability of
her leaving the West Indies and seeking some other field for depreda-
tions, perhaps the East Indies, and in anticipation of such a movement
directed you to proceed at once to the Strait of Sunda for the protection
of our commerce in that quarter.
	Nearly three months later, April 15, orders were transmitted to you
to return with the Wyoming to Philadelphia, via the Cape of Good hope
and the West Indies. This latter order is hereby revoked, an dyonwill
remain on your present station until further instructions, and, if you
shall not already have done so, proceed as directed in the letter of the
26th of January last.
 Intelligence recently received leads to the impression that the Ala-
bama, accompanied by the Florida, has abandoned the West Indies,
and apprehensions are felt that she will direct~ her cruise to the East
Indies. It therefore behooves you to be Vigilant and to be prepare

Page 262

262	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

for the appearance of one or both of these vessels in the east, and
ready to pursue and, if possible, overtake them in their piratical career.
	Another steamer of the same character left~ England early in April
last and has not been heard of sincethe J&#38; jan, or Virginia [Georgia],
as she has been called. She is a screw steamer of about 500 tons.
	The Alabama and Florida, at last accounts, were committing their
depredations a little south of the equator, between longitude 250 and
350 west from Greenwich. On the 24th of April they destroyed the
Win. M. Dodge [Oneida], from Shanghai, in latitude 1~ 40 5., longi-
tude 290 10 W.
	The Department has just received your No. 15, dated March 25, at
Swatow, reporting an accident to the Wyoming by striking a rock. It
is hoped that the damage was not sufficient to cause the loss of her
services for a lengthy period.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy.
	Commander D. MODOUGAL,
Commanding U. S. S. Wyoming, Macao, China.


Instructions of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral Bell,
U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific Squadron, in view of the possible
appearance of the C. S. steamers Alabama and Florida in the Pacific.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 9, 1863.

	SIR: YAou have doubtless been apprised of the appearance of the
Alabama and the Florida south of the equator.
	They have been engaged in their depredations between longitude 250
and 350 W. from Greenwich and latitude 20 N. and S. The last vessel
known to have been captured and burned was the Win. iLl. Dodge
[Oneida], by the Florida, on the 24th of April, in latitude 10 40 5.
and longitude 290 10 W. The destination of one or both of these ves-
sels may be the Pacific. It therefore behooves you to be prepared for
their appearance, and to be ready to make the best possible disposition
of your limited force for the protection of our commerce.
	Another vessel of a similar character, called the Japan, or Virginia,
a screw steamer of about 500 tons, has been sent out from England.
She sailed early in April and nothing has been heard of her since.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHAS. II. BELL
Commanding Pacific Squadron, Panama, New Granada.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of cruise in U. S. S. Vanderbilt.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
St. Thomas, June 9, 1863.
	SIR: I have to report my arrival at this port, after an absence of
fifteen days. I mentioned in my letter, No. 69, that I intended to visit
La Guayra (Venezuela). and the islands off the main.
	We made the island of Blanquilla on the third day. This is the
place where the Alabama coaled from a ve~scl, the Agrippina, in Octo-
ber last. We found at the anchorage two American whaling schooners

Page 263

OPERATIONS OF TH.E CRUISERSUNION.	263

the Union and Rising Sun, of Provincetown, and remained long enongh
to ascertain that there had been no Confederate vessels there, nor any
seen in the neighborhood. There is no harbor, but ~ tolerable anchor-
age. The island has but three inhabitants, who are called traders. A
considerable amount of stock is raised, and vessels can be supplied,
but it affords nothing else for them.
	We made the coast some distance to the windward of La Guayra,
and ran down along it until we reached the anchorage. The smallpox
was prevailing to an alarming degree and prevented us from having
any communication with the shore but what was absolutely necessary.
Our stay was two days longer than I contemplated, from not being
able to finish the business which was the object of my visit. On my
return from Caracas I received the news of the loss of the Shepherd
Knapp, by the packet from St. Thomas, which necessarily caused a
change in the plan I had in view to visit the island of Cura~ao, Buen
Ayre, Roccas [Los IRoques] and Bird Islands, and the Testigos, as also
Margarita, thence to the island of Trinidad, and taking the whole
range from Tobago and Barbados to the northward around to St.
Thomas again, meeting with the Oneida off Martinique. The news of
the Shepherd Knapps wreck, and the arrival at St. Thomas of the San-
tiago de Cuba with her stores, made my presence there necessary, and
I determined after passing the three islands near Cura~ao to visit the
port of Santa Ana. When we reached there we found that we would be
subject to fifteen days quarantine. I communicated with the consul,
Mr. Morse, who informed me of the arrival of two coal vessels, then
discharging, a~xd the report of the governor, that he could not give us
pratique but, if returning in fifteen days, he would be happy to do
so. No information had reached Cura~ao of the rebel privateers, and
I concluded to return to St. Thomas. This we accomplished in sixty.
eight hours, touching at Santa Crnz, in consequence of hearing from a
vessel we boarded that it was reported there that a Confederate priva-
teer had been seen off that island. It appears that in colisequence of
the strong belief of the inhabitants of this island that the Alabama
wonld appear at Fredericksted in pursuit of coal and supplies, they
moved all the coal away they could, and were determined to fire the
rest and render the attempt fruitless. The consul prepared a vessel to
send immediate notice to this place of her appearance. The governor
also reenforced the forts to be better prepared. No stronger proof
could be given than these proceedings of the friendly terms which
exist between us, and the good will entertained for our cause, which
will afford you great gratification.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	Acting Rear-Admiral,	CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.


Letter from the U. S. consul at Pernambuco, Brazil, to the Secretary of
State, reporting the capture by the C. S. S. Florida of ship Crown Point,
of Boston, Mass.

CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Pernambuco, June 10, 1863.
	SIR:	The painful duty of informing you of disasters to our com-
merce again devolves upon me. The coasting steamer Jaguaribs, whic

Page 264

264	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

arrived this morning from Cear~i, brought from that port eleven men,
late of and belonging to the ship Crown Point, of Boston.
	From the statement of John E. Norman, late Third officer, it appears
that the ship Grown Point, of Boston, 1,098 tons burden, sailed from
New York on the 8th of April, bound for San Francisco, ladeii with
assorted cargo of merchandise. On the 14th [13th] of May, atnoon, when
in about latitude 30 30 5., longitude , she was captured by the
pirate Florida, which vessel left this port, as stated in my last dis-
patch, on the 12th ultimo.
	Mr. Norman stated that when the Florida spoke the Crown Point
she (the Florida) had the British flag flying. After asking What
ship, whither bound, and where from ~ the Florida sent a boat along-
side, and about the time the crew of the boat were boarding the ship
the Florida hoisted the flag of the so-called Confederate States. The
officers and crew of the ship were transferred to the steamer, and dur-
ing the afternoon the pirates were employed in breaking out cargo,
and searching for such articles as they needed. Such goods as they
did not want were throwu overboard. At niidnight the captured ship
was burned.
	During the two weeks following this event the Florida remained in
the vicinity of an island known as As Rocas, about 60 miles west of
Fernando de Noronha, at which place her surgeon and another person
were drowned by the swamping of their boat.
	During this time a Danish brig was met with, and the captain of
the Crown Point, his family, and two mates were put on board of her.
iNine of the captured crew joined the Florida.
	Oii the 4th of the present month the Florida entered the port of
Cearh, disembarked her prisoners, and purchased 70 tons of coal. On.
the 5th instant the prisoners were sent to this port by the acting U. S.
consular agent at Cearti. They informed me that the Florida was still
there when they left. I have apprised our minister at Rio de Janeiro of
the facts of the case, and will give notice to our consuls and consular
agents along the coast of this event.
	I have the honor to be, with highest respect, your most obedient
servant
THOMAS ADAMSON, Jn.,
U.	S. Consul.
	Hon. Wi~. II. SEWARD,
Secretary of State, Washington, D. C.



Report of Acting Master Williams, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship
mo, regarding convoy of ship Aquila.

U.	S. SHIP INo,
Lat. 350 30 N., Long. 440 W., June 10, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you of the safe arrival thus far of
the U. S. ship mo and convoy ship Aquila. Will you please notify the
honorable Secretary of the Navy of the above facts ~
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAMES M. WILLIAMS,
Acting Master, Commanding.
	Rear-Admiral lii. PAULDING,
Commandant Brooklyn Navy Yard

Page 265

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	265

Letter from the acting U. S. consul-general at Havana, Cuba, to Acting
Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron,
reporting movements of blockade runners in that~ort.

U.	S. CONSULATE-GENERAL,
Havana, June 11, 1863.
	DEAR SIR: I hope that my dispatch of the 2d instant, together
with all the mail (in two large bags) sent by me per Pasaro del Oceano
on the 3d, have reached you in safety. The bags were to be delivered
to the Vanderbilt, or any other ship of your squadron calling for them
at sea or at any of the intermediate [ports] she touches on her way to
St. Thomas, or at this last-named place if not called for before.
	The Hero, alias Victor, was actually taken by the Juniata, Com-
mander Stevens, and carried into Key West.
	We have had no arrivals for several days past from the blockaded
ports, nor any departures for them direct since the sailing of the Brit-
ish steamer Ruby on the 2d. The Neptune, it is understood, will sail
this afternoon for Mobile. The Habanero (Spanish steamer) is getting
ready.
	An English steamer called the Nan.Nan (formerly the American
steamer Flushing, that used to run between New York and Flushing,
L. I.) arrived here from St. John, New Brunswick, in less than eight
days; she is a very fast vessel, said to be faster even than the Ruby
and the Neptune, 150 to 160 feet long, side-wheel. Two or three days
ago she exhibited her speed a short distance. She went 10 miles in
thirty-three minutes with 35 pounds of steam. There is not the slight-
est doubt that this steamer is intended to run the blockade at Mobile.
	The Confederate traders have been expecting steamers from Mobile,
but none come. The Tioga, Commander Clary, came in on the after-
noon of the 3d and sailed again on the morning of the 6th. I send you
a few dispatches that Captain Clary handed me for you; also the dis-
patches and letters which were brought by the Roanoke from New
York on the 6th.
	I accompany also a copy of the Weekly Herald, 30th ultimo, the last
date from New York.
	Hoping that you are in good health, I remain, very truly, yours,
THOS. SAVAGE,
Acting Consul- General.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding United States West India Squadron, St. Thomas.



Letter from Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
india Squadron, to the Secretary of the Navy, transmitting correspond-
ence with Vice-Admiral ]Jliilne R N., regarding transgression by United
State vessels of laws of neutrality.

FLAG.STEA1VEER YANDEREILT,
St. Thomas, June 11, 1863.
	SIR: I herewith enclose, for the information of the Department, a
copy of a letter which I received from Vice-Admiral A. Milne, 11. N.,
commander in chief of her Britannic Majesty~s North Atlantic forces,
together with a copy of my reply to said letter. As the subject referre

Page 266

266	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

to in Vice-Admiral Mimes letter has been laid before her Britannic
Majestys minister at Washington, you doubtless ere this have been
made acquainted with it.
	I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,

Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.
[Enclosures.]

[II. B. M. S.] NILE,
At Bermuda, May 21, 1863.
	SIR: I consider it an act of courtesy due to you as the Rear-Admiral
commanding the United States Squadron in the West Indies to acquaint
you that I have felt myself called upon, in the discharge of my public
duty, to bring to the notice of her Majestys Government, and likewise
of her Majestys minister at Washington, for representation to the Gov-
ernment of the United States, the practice pursued by cruisers, under
your orders, of detaining British vessels trading from one neutral port
to another, and apparently affording no legitimate ground whatever
for their detention.
	As these proceedings appear to me to have been in direct violation
of international law and of the very satisfactory instructions for United
States cruisers which were communicated to Lord Lyons by Mr. Seward
in August la~t, I think it right, in the interests of peace and to avert
as far as possible every cause of misuiiderstanding between our respec-
tive governments, to beg your serious attention to this very important
subject, in the hope that you may see the necessity of taking immediate
steps to confine the exercise of belligerent rights on the part of United
States cruisers over neutrals, within the limits prescribed by the law of
nations, and thus prevent the recurrence of cases similar to those which
are now the subject of discussion between the two governments, and
which are causing such natural anxiety among the mercantile classes
interested in our West India commerce.
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant,
ALEX. MILNE,
Vice-Admiral and Commander in Chief.
	Rear.Admiral WILKES, etc.,
Commanding United States Squadron in the West Indies.


U.	S. FLAG.STEAMER VANDERBILT,
June 10, 1863, at St. Thomas.
	SIR: I have to acknowledge the receipt, on my arrival here yesterday,
of your communication of the 21st of May. I take it, as I believe it
was meant, in the most friendly spirit.
	I should have been glad to learn the instances of the cruisers under
my orders detaining British vessels trading from one neutral port to
another, which you have deemed it your duty to bring to the notice of
her Majestys Government and to her Majestys minister at Washington.
I am left entirely in the dark as to the grievance which you inform me
has been the subject of your communication

Page 267

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	267

	I am well aware that many reports have been circulated respecting
our proceedings, and, I may add, of outrageous conduct on my part.
Is it just, on mere assumption, as I take it your ~cts have been predi-
cated, that you should have felt warranted in charging my officers and
myself with violating the orders of my Government, or trespassing on
neutral rights ~ It does not become me to argue this point, or to offer
any explanation, which might leave the impression on your mind that
I thought I had done or permitted any wrong in the exercise of bellig-
erent rights. My Government is well advised of my actions, and to it
explanation will be made, if necessary.
	The anxiety I feel in the exercise of belligerent rights, and the desire
I have to respect those of neutrals in every particular, I apprehend is
as great as yours. It is my wish and determination to avoid any mis-
understanding or cause of irritation between our respective countries.
Moreover, I feel assured that in no one case have the rights been
invaded, nor the necessity of cultivating friendly feeling been lost sight
of by my officers or myself, and when the true facts are considered,
instead of the apparent ones, you yourself will come to the same con-
clusion.
	It is extremely difficult to understand the actions of others, especially
when our judgment may have been formed or influenced by ex parte
statements, many times and often by untruthful and interested persons,
which is to be regretted, but can not be avoided or complained of; they
have the effect to produce much feeling and condemnation of an officer
who does his duty. Of this, in your length of service, you must have
met many instances.
	In the ex~rcise of the belligerent rights, it has ever been my practice
and that of my officers in conimand of the United States cruisers com-
posing my squadron to avoid everything which could make the duty
of search in any way harsh or unpleasant, and this duty has beeii con-
ducted in the most careful manner to avoid any rudeness, complaint,
or cause of distress whatever. You may be assured I am as desirous
as you can be to avoid any subject of discussion between our govern-
ments. Unhappily they will arise and cause anxiety to both parties;
they can not at all times be averted, but when the circumstances are
known, this state of anxiety vanishes, and good feeling restored and
justice awarded.
	Although I can not admit that we have overstepped a proper inter-
pretation of belligerent rights over neutrals, or unduly exercised them
without the limits prescribed by the laws of nations, I nevertheless
have to express my appreciation for your courtesy in addressing me
your dispatch, to inform me what you deemed obligatory in the dis-
charge of your duty.
	I have to regret that since I have been in this command we have not
met, as I am satisfied that a few minutes conversation between us
would have shown that my views and actions were in accordance with
the feelings you express. Trusting that one of these days such an
opportunity may be afforded,
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
	Vice-Admiral A. MILKE, II. N.,
Commander in Chief of the North American Station, Bermuda

Page 268

268	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Commander ]IfcDougal, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S~ Wyo-
ming, regarding political affairs in Japan.

U.	S. S. WYOMING,
Yokohama, June 12, 1863. (Via Marseilles.)
	SIR: The residence of the American consul since the establishment
of the consulate at this port has been in the village of Kanagawa, on
the opposite side of the bay from Yokohama, who, with two American
missionary families, are the only foreigners on that side of the bay.
	On the 31st ultimo the governor of Yokohama requested an inter-
view with the consul, and informed him that for the present it was
nnsafe for him and the other foreign families to remain longer in Kana-
gawa, and advised his immediate removal to this side of the bay, as in
case of an outbreak he would not be able to afford that protection
that he could in Yokohama. At the request of the consul I brought
his family on board that evening, and the next morning the missionary
families, to Yokohama. At 1:30 the next morning General Pruyn and
suite arrived in a Japanese steamer from Yeddo, having been advised
by one of the ministers that, though guarded by 400 or 500 Japanese
guards, they could not an swer longer for his personal safety, as the
city was full of loomins (cutthroats and robbers), who were committing
all kinds of outrages, having only the day previous committed a murder
in the open street a short distance from the legation.
	General Prnyn Las remained in Yeddo [TokioJ since the destruction
of the legation by fire on the morning of the 25th May, and would not
have left at t~he time he did had he not been satisfied of the sincerity
of the minister who brought him the message and who expressed fear
for his own safety in returning to the castle.
	There appears to be a conflicting opinion with regard to Japanese
affairs. The general opinion is that the Government is on the eve of a
revolution, the principal object of which is the expulsion of foreigners
and a return to their ancient exclusiveness. The tycoon and his party
are what may be termed the liberal party, who wish trade and inter-
course with the world. The party in opposition are composed of many
of the most wealthy and powerful princes, with the Mikado, the
spiritual emperor, at their head, who are hostile to all foreign inter-
course. How matters will end time will determine.
	The difficulties yet remain unsettled between the English and Japa-
nese. It is stated that a conference takes place to-day in which some
definite arrangement will be made for the final settlement of demands
made.
	On the 7th, Captain Townsend, of the ship Viking, arrived, reporting
his ship wrecked on the island of Mecoura Sima [Mikura], latitude
330 55N., longitude 139~ 34 E., having struck on the morning of the
4th instant, having on board as passengers 458 Chinese, bound to San
Francisco.
	The next morning, tIme 8th, with Consul Fisher on board, I proceeded
to the wreck via Simoda, where I stopped to make arrangements for the
accommodation of her passengers. At noon of the 9th, arrived at the
wreck and immediately took on board all the Chinese and landed them
the next morning at Simoda, thence to this place. I left the crew by
the vessel to strip her. On that being done a vessel will be dispatched
to bring them and what is saved to this port. The vessel lays broad-
side on the shore, distant about 50 feet, where all that can be saved
will be landed. She will be a total lojs, having bilged a short time
after striking

Page 269

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	269

	I am happy to state that the health of the officers and crew still con-
tinues goo(l.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your ~bedient servant,

D.	MODOUGAL,
Commander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Report of Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge,
of cruise from April 10 to June 12, 1863, in search of Confederate
vessels.

U.	S. S. KEARSARGE,
Cadiz Bay, June 12, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that since 10th of April last I con-
tinued until the 15th May to cruise about the Western Islands, under
easy steam and at times with propeller detached, visiting occasion-
ally all the ports and bays of the islands. On the 18th, while lying
in at Angra, Terceira, a suspicious steamer hove in sight to the east-
ward, when we immediately got underway and commenced a pursuit
of the stranger. After six and a half hours chase night set in without
our having overhauled her; we had, however, gained sufficient to see
that the chase was one of the English mail steamers, which proved
afterwards to be the Tasmania. It was a source of regret to find that,
owing to the softness of the brass bearings for the crank pins, the pro-
peller could not be worked above 50 revolutions without a constant
stream of water being turned upon the journals to overcome the heat.
	From this reason, together with the obstruction of an extremely
foul bottom, caused by a thick coat of linseed oil having been put upon
it at Cadiz, we were prevented from speedily overhauling the Tasmania.
	In my letter of the 8th April I stated to the Department my suspi-
cions that Terceira would become a depot for the enemy and his abet-
tors as soon as the summer months set in. On my return there on the
5th May, I found that my suspicions had been verified, two blockade
runners, the Sirius and Orion, having coaled and left for Nassau in the
absence of the Kearsarge. I have good reason to suppose that neither
of these vessels at the time carried contraband goods, but would
receive such on their arrival at Nassau.
	On the 15th May I left the Western Islands for Madeira, and after
lying about the port of Funchal and adjacent islands some six days,
sailed for this port, by way of Gibraltar, for supplies.
	I regret to inform the Department that I have been unable to learn
anything of the movements of the Virginia [Georgia] (late Japan).
This vessel, according to English papers, took her armament on board
in some creek on the coast of France, and must have economized her
coal by the use of sails, as a month later she had not touched at either
the Western or Madeira islands.
	Information has just been received that a new Alabama. late Lord
Clyde, had got out of Cardiff under Commander Bulloch. I shall pro-
ceed as soon as provided to Madeira, thence to the Western Islands, in
hopes of intercepting this new freebooter.
	I regret that we shall be unable to dock the Kearsarge and clear the
fungus from her bottom, as the delay migl4 be of serious moment

Page 270

270	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

We, however, have been able to obtain crank-pin bearings of a harder
metal, and with a clean bottom I believe that there are but few steam-
ers that we should not be able to come up with. ~
Very respectfutlly, your obedient servant,
JOHN A. WINSLOW,
Captain.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Nickels, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. ship Onward, of cruise from April 28 to June 22, 1863, and
regarding the movements of Confederate vessels in Brazilian waters.

U.	S. SHIP ONWARD,
Bahia, June 12, 1863.

	SIR: I have the honor to report my arrival at this port this day for
water and news of the rebel cruisers.
	On the 23d of April I entered St. Vincent, Cape Verde Islands, and.
found the U. S. S. ]Fliohican lying there. I did not suppose that any
of our vessels were there or I should not have called. I knew that
many of the vessels which run the blockade coaled there, and, being
acquainted with the place, I supposed the rebel cruisers would coal
there also, as I still think they will do. On the 25th we left for Porto
Praya, and arrived the next Jay, which being Sunday, the 26th, did
nothing. On the 27th took on board 2,500 gallons of water, and in
the evening proceeded to sea. On the 5th day of May crossed the line
in longitude 26~ 30, and continued cruisingbetween this longitude and
330 W., and from the equator to 50 5., until the 9th day of June, when
we began to work to the southward, near the Brazilian coast. Our
water becoming low, I proceeded to this port.
	I find that the Alabama (rebel) left here on the 21st of May, after
lying ten days, and the rebel steamer Georgia, formerly the Japan, or
the Virginia, left on the 23d of May, lying here about the same time
as the Alabama. On the 24th the Mohican arrived. The Alabama, as
near as I can learn, has a full crew of about 180 men, of all nations, all
polished pirates. The Georgia has not a full crew, I believe, although
she shipped 12 men here from those which the Alabama took from the
merchant vessels. I find here two barks; one, the Agrippina, is loaded
with coal and ammunition, and is the same bark that supplied the
Alabama at Terceira; the other is the Castor, of Liverpool, and loaded
with the same material. The latter hauled alongside the Georgia and
discharged coal into her, and, some say, a large gun. She attempted to
go to sea, but seeing some vessel outside, which she took for one of our
men-of-war, returned. We are now anchored near both, so that it is
impossible for them to get to sea without my knowledge.
	June 13.To-day the Agrippina made sail and moved up the harbor,
some say to discharge, as she has no hopes of getting out.
June 14.A grippina doing nothing.
June 15.A grippina doing nothing.
	June 16.I have heard to-day, through reliable sources, that the
Agrippina has sold her coal and powder and will discharge here.
	June 17.No news.
June 18.A grippina discharging

Page 271

a
OPJ~ATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	271

June 19.Castor pretended to get underway.
	June 20.News that the Florida was in Cear~i on the 4th instant,
getting up steam to go to sea, and captured the ship Crown Point on
the 14th [l3thl of May. The Castor got underway, and proceeded
farther up the bay. I hear she is to discharge her cargo. We moved
up also that we might see the movements of both.
	June 21.Nothing new.
	June 22.Castor discharging. U. S. S. Mohican arrived in port at
sunset. Nothing new from the rebels. We shall go to sea to-morrow.
My reasons for remaining here so long were to keep these two vessels
in, or capture them, to stop their supplies from the rebels. I thought
this my duty, and find that we have obliged them to discharge. I hope
I have done right.
	I have also to report that on the 5th of June we boarded the Amer-
ican ship Wurtembery, of New Orleans, and found she had no papers,
only a sealed letter from the consular agent at Swansea (a copy of
which I enclose), and a receipt from Consul Morse, at London, for her
register, and also a statement that her papers had been forwarded to
Washington.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, ~. F. NICKELS,

	Acting Volunteer 1~ieutenant, Commanding U. S. ship Onward.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.



Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to Commander Nichols, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. S. Alabama, to prepare for sea.

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
St. Thomas, June 12, 1863.
	Sin:	You will get the Alabama ready for sea as soon as possible, and
report to me when you will be in condition to leave port.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[CHARLES WILKES,]
[Acting Rear-Admiral,] Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander E. T. NICHOLS, U. S. Navy,

	Commanding Steamer Alabama, West India Squadron.


Report of Commander Clitz, U. S. Ravy, commanding U. S. S. Juniata,
of the capture by that vessel of Confederate schooner Fashion.

U.	S. S. JUNIATA
Off the Island of Cuba, June 13, ~t863.
	SIR: I have to inform you that to-day, at 3:45 p. in., I fell in with and
captured the schooner Fashion, of Mobile. At the time of the capture
we were in latitude 230 5 N., longitude 83~ 29 W., distant about 5 or
6 miles from the nearest land. She is under rebel colors, commanded
by George Miller, and has a crew of 3 men. She is loaded, accordin

Page 272

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
272

to the bill of lading, with the following articles, viz, 55 bags of salt
(10,875 pounds), 15 barrels soda ash (3,825 pounds), 15 kegs carbonate
of soda (1,680 pounds).
	I send her to the port of Key West in charge of Acting Ensign W.
H. Winslow and a prize crew of 2 seamen and 2 landsmen.
	The Fashion is last from Havana. At the time of the capture there
was no vessel in sight.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
J.	M. B. GLITZ,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commodore Iardner, U. S. Navy, appointed to command West
India Squadron, of arrival at Cape Haitien, West Indies.

U.	S. S. TICONDEROGA,
Cape Haitien, June 13, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival yesterday of this ship,
after a passage of six days from Philadelphia, under moderate steam
from 15 tons of coal a day.
	Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes was last heard from at St. Thomas. II
shall therefore proceed to that place without delay. Nothing more has
been heard @f the rebel cruisers than was known from the newspapers
a week ago.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
3.	L. LARDNER,
Commodore.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Commander Stevens, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Sonoma,
of arrival at New York from West India Squadron.

U. S. S. SoNoi~,
New York, June 13, 1863.
	SIR: Under the instructions * of Rear-Admiral Wilkes, of May 16,
directing me to proceed directly to New York, I have the honor to
report the arrival of the Sonoma at this port, in seven days from Key
West, the officers and crew all well.
	I have on board as passengers the U. S. marshal at Key West, with
his family; Dr. Laws, of the Navy; Acting Masters Mate Ford, and
Mr. Charles Bell, late captains clerk of the Tahoma.
	I have also 35 persons on board as prisoners, 7 of them being a por-
tion of the crew of the ship Sparkling Sea, sentenced to the penitentiary
at Washington for mutiny, and 1 marine and 1 landsmnn under sentence
of court-martial; the balance are state prisoners, whose destination is
Fort Lafayette, sent North in the Sonomna by order of Rear-Admiral
Bailey, who also instructed me to afford convoy to the ship S. 11. iJial-
lory, bound to New York with prize goods. 1 convoyed the Mallory
*Seep. 196

Page 273

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	273

about 200 miles north of Mantanilla [Matanilla] Reef, when we sepa-
rated, frcm the captain of the Mallory having probably misunderstood
the signal which was made to tack ship. After ~this I continued to
traverse his supposed track until to the northward of Port Royal, when
I shaped my course for this place.
Very respectfally, your obedient servant,
T.	II. STEVENS,

Commander.
Hon. SECRETARY OF THE NAVY.



Search for the C. S. vessels Clarence, Tacony, and Archer, commanded
successively by Lieutenant C. W~ Read, C. S. Navy, and final capture
of Read and his party.
Notice from E. A. Bonder &#38; Co., of the appearance of the C. 5. brig Clarence off Cape Henry,

Virginia.

[Telegram.]

PIITLADELPITIA, June 13, 1863.
(Received at Washington 4:25 p. in.)
	The pirate Clarence captured, within sight of Cape Henry, yesterday
morning, brig [schooner] Shindler and schooner Kate Stewart and bark.
Tacony, of this port. They are using the Tacony for pirating farther.
E.	A. SOUDER &#38; CO.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Letter from Messrs. E. A. Bonder &#38; Co., of Philadelphia, to the Secretary of the Navy, relative
to the depredations of C. S. brig Clarence.

PIITLADELPIIIA, June 13, 1863.
	DEAR SIR: We telegraphed you to-day in regard to the outrages of
the pirate Clarence, a sailing brig, called a tender to the Florida. Cap-
tain Munday, of the bark Tacony, of this port, reached here at 3 oclock
this afternoon, and furnishes the following, and also handed ns a letter
from Captain Teague, of our schooner Kate Stewart, which vessel he
left in a boat this morning and reached a town in New Jersey in time
to take train for Philadelphia. He states briefly as follows:
	Yesterday morning about 9 oclock (12th instant), off Cape Henry,
and almost in sight of it, he saw a vessel (brig Clarence) with the United
States flag flying, Union down. He hesitated at first, but upon seeing
men apparently in distress he put toward her, when the crew sent [a] boat
alongside, all in seamens costume, and upon coming on the deck of the
Tacony presented revolvers at the captain and mate and those on deck
and ordered them into their boat and took them to the Clarence as pris-
oners. They took all they had, and while aboard the pirate the schooner
M. A. Shindler came along, and she was taken in same manner and burned
at once. Soon after, our schooner Kate Stewart, of 387 tons, on her way
from Key West, in ballast, came along, and was captured also, but hav-
ing some passengers, mostl~ladies, aboard, was all owed to proceed, after
extorting a bond from the captain for $7,000, being about half of her
N W RVOL II1

Page 274

274
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSIJNION.
cost. The captain of the pirate (Read) then put on board the Kate
Stewart the crews of all the other vessels and set fire to the Clarence
and took the Tacony (bark) for liis ship and p~t off. The crew told
Captain Munday that the Clarence, the day before, was pursued by a
United States gunboat and threw~ overboard their guns, except a small
swivel, and consequently they have no armament on board the bark
Tacony and could be captured readily in forty-eight honrs if a steamer
with a single gun was sent after her, or a sailing vessel in disguise.
	We submit this information to you that such steps as may be neces-
sary may be promptly taken,
And remain, dear sir, your obedient servants,
EDMUND A. SOUDER &#38; Co.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosure.]

OFF COITANSEY, DELAWARE BAY, June 13, 1863.
	IDEAR SIRS: Yesterday at 10 a. in., latitude 370 10, longitude 750 5I~
was boarded by a tender from the pirate Florida, and gave bonds for
$7,000. Everything well and safe except that. The bearer, Captain
Munday, late master bark Tacony, will give you all particulars.
Yours, very respectfully,
GEORGE E. TEAGUE,
Master of Schooner Kate Stewart.
	Messrs. E. A. SOUDER &#38; Co.,
Philadelphia, Pa.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 13, 1863.
	Yesterday morning the privateer Clarence, a captured sailing vessel,
fitted out by the Oreto, captured three vessels within 8 miles of Cape
Henry. The bark Tacony they are fitting as a cruiser. Send out any-
thing you have available.
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
	Rear.Admiral LEE,
Newport News.


[Telegram.]

1ff. S. FLAGSHIP MINNESOTA,
Off Newport News, June 13, 186310 p. m.
(Received at Washington, midnight.)
	Dispatch received at 10 to-night. Will dispatch Young Rover, guard
vessel, to-night; also Commodore Jones, now repairing at the navy yard;
also Dacotah to.morrow, if her boilers, which are now being examined,
will allow it.
S.	P. LEE,
Acting Rear-Admiral.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington

Page 275

OPERATIONS OF	THE CRUISERSUNION. 275

[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTME%NT, June 13, 1863.
	The privateer Clarence, which was fitted out after being captured by
the Oreto, has made (yesterday morning) three captures oft~ the capes
of the Chesapeake. (Jan the shenandoah go in pursuit? One of the
prizes they are to fit out as a privateer. WELLES,


[A3ecretary of the Navy.]
Commodore C. K. STRIELING,
Philadelphia, Navy Yard.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 13, 1863.
	The privateer Clarence, a sailing vessel captured and fitted out by
the Oreto, made three captures yesterday off the capes of the Chesa-
peake. Send what vessels you can in pursuit. Let the Tuscarora go
at once, and charter a vessel to take Admiral Foote to Port Royal on
Tuesday.
GrDEON WELLES
[Secretary of the Navy.]
Rear-Admiral PAULDING,
New York, Navy Yard.


[Telegram.]

NEW YoRK, June 13, 1863.
(Received at Washington 9:25 p. in.,
	Dispatch received. The Tuscarora, Seminole, Dai Ching, and Adela
are ready and will proceed to-night to sea. We hope to get the Vir-
ginia and Kittatinny off to-morrow.
H.	PAULDING,
Commandant, Navy Yard.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


[Telegram.]

U. S. FLAGSHIP MINNESOTA,
0./f Newport News, June 13, 186311:30 p. m.
(Received at Washington, 9:30 a. in., June 14.)
	Dacotah reported unfit for service. Young Rover ordered to cruise
south of Cape Henry to Hatteras. Commodore Jones ordered to cruise
between capes of Virginia. Western World, just arrived, ordered to
cruise north of Cape Charles. All within the Gulf Stream. Sumpter,
sent to-day to Yorktown, ordered by telegraph to proceed on a general
cruise after the privateers. All duly informed of the situation.
S.	P. LEE,
Acting Rear-Admiral.
Hon. G. WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy

Page 276

276	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Order of the Secretary of the Navy to the commandants of the Boston, New York, and Phila-
delphia navy yards re~ative to pursuit of C S. bark Tacony.

NAVY DEPARTAENT, June 14, 1863.

	It appears that the crew of the pfrate Clarence have transferred
themselves to the captured bark Tacony, and have burned the Clarence.
They have nothing but small arms, and the Tacony was in ballast.
	Charter or seize half a dozen moderate-sized, fast vessels; put on
board an officer, a dozen men, plenty of small arms, and one or two
howitzers; send them out in various directions. Take any vessel that
can be sent to sea within the next forty-eight hours.
GIDEON WELLES,

Commodore C. K. STRII3LING,	[Secretary of the Navy.
Commandant Navy Yard, Philadelphia.
	(Same to Commodore Montgomery, Boston navy yard, and Rear-
Admiral Paulding, New York navy yard.)



[Telegram.]

PHILADELPITIA, June 14, 1863.

(Received at Washington 6:50 p. in.)
	SIR: Your telegram received at 3:30 p. m. Will do all I can to
capture the Tacony.
Res~ectfally, etc.,
C.	K. STRIBLING,

Commandant.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 14, 1863.

	Send the Montgomery to cruise near the Nantucket Shoals in search
of the pirate bark Tacony.
GIDEON WELLES,

Commodore MONTGOMERY,	[Secretary df the Navy.]
Commandant Navy Yard, Boston, Mass.



[Telegram.]

NEW YORK, June 14, 1863.
(Received at Washington 7:30 p. in.)
	Dispatch of this day received. The Seminole and Adela went to sea
this morning, the Tuscarora and Dai Ching later in the day. I hope
to get the Virginia off to-night, and the Kittatinny to-morrow. I will
do all I can to carry out the orders of the Department by this days
dispatch. It is Sunday, and we work at great disadvantage.

H.	PAULDING,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretar~ Navy

Page 277

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	277

Order of the commandant navy yard, New York, to the commanding officers of United States
vessels to proceed in search of C. S. bark Tacony.

NAVY YARD, NEW YoRK, June 14, 1863.

	SIR: Enclosed is a copy of a telegram* received from the Department.
You will proceed to sea without delay and cruise forthe pirate indicated.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
		II.	PAULDING,
			 Commandant.
	Commander W. A. PARKER,
Commanding Tuscarora.
	(Same to Commander Rolanclo, commanding &#38; minole; Lieutenant-
Commander J. C. Chaplin, commanding Dai Ching; Acting Volunteer
Lieutenant Stodder, commanding Adela; Acting Volunteer Lieutenant
C. H. Brown, commanding Virginia; Acting Master I. D. Seyburn,
commanding schooner .IiTittatinny.)


[Telegram.]

NEW YORK, June 14, 18637 p. m.
(Received at Washington 7:30 p. in.)
	The yacht America is here with twelve midshipmen on board. May
I give her a suitable crew and send her in pursuit of the fEacony? Also
the Marion is here and might cruise for a week. May I send her ~ The
Sabine, with some addition to her crew, might go for a week on this
service. Th~ Virginia is just leaving.
	H. PAIJLDING,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,		[Commandant.]
iS ecretary Navy.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to the commandant navy yard, New York, relative to the
pursuit of 0. 5. bark Tacony.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 14, 1863.

	Your dispatch with regard to the Sabine, America, and Marion
received and approved. Send all of them off at once. The Tacony was
in ballast and must be short of provisions. She has no cannon, the
pirates having left the only one they had on board the Clarence when
she was abandoned and burned.
GIDEON WELLES
[Secretary of the Navy.]
	Rear-Admiral H. PAIYLDING,
Commandant Navy Yard, New York.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 14,1863.

	The Barney will leave Baltimore in the morning. If she arrives and
can be at Aquia Creek, say, by Wednesday morning, send her there;
otherwise not. The [crew of the] pirate Clarence transferred themselves
to the bark Tacony and burned their own brig. The Tacony is of 40&#38; 
tons and they have only small arms. A couple of sailing vessels might

*See p. 275

Page 278

278	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNIoN.

be sent toward Bermuda. If there are any good sailing vessels in the
[Hampton] Roads not indispensable to the Army, seize them, put on
board one or two howitzers, some extra men and~mall arms, and send
them out. Do not search any line north of your latitude as that direc-
tion will be taken care of.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary.
	Rear-Admiral LEE,
Newport News.

[Telegram.]

BROOKLYN, June 15, 1863.
(Received at Washington 4:45 p. in.)
	The Kittatinny left the yard at 2 p. in., and will put to sea to-night to
coast to the eastward to the Banks of Newfoundland.
	H. PAULDING,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES	[Commandant].
Secretary of Ihe Navy.

[Telegram.]

U. S. FLAGSHIP MINNESOTA,
Off Newport News, June 15, 186310 a. m.
~Received at Washington, 6 p. in., via Fortress Monroe.,
	Fleet captain, after examination, reports there are two schooners in
Hampton Roads of 200 tons each, loaded with ordnance supplies,
which may suit the purpose of your dispatch received last night. The
difficulty of access to the fort wharf for unloading this ordnance mat-
ter suggests that more dispatch will be attained by equipping sailing
vessels from Northern ports. I will order the schooners William Bacon
and Matthew Vassar to cruise together between the parallels of Cape
Fear Shoals and Cape Hatteras.
	S. P. LEE,
	Hon. G. WELLES,	Acting Rear-Admiral.
Secretary of the Navy.

Instructions from the President of the United States to the Secretary of the Treasury regarding

measures for the protection of commerce.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, June 14, 1863.

	SIR: Your note of this morning is received. You will cooperate, by
the revenue cutters under your direction, with the Navy in arresting
rebel depredations on American commerce and transportation and in
capturing rebels engaged therein.
	ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
	The SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY.


Order of the Secretary of the Treasury to Captain McGowan, commanding U. S. revenue
steamer Cuyahoga, to proceed in search of the 0. 5. bark Tacony.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT, June 14, 1863.
	Telegrams received last night at the War Department report depre-
dations at 5 a. m. Friday by the rebel brig Clarence, 40 miles off th

Page 279

279
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
capes of Yirginia. The rebels had burned three vessels and captured
three others, of which two were bonded and one, the bark Tacony, con-
verted into a war vessel in place of the Clarence, which they also
burned, after having transferred her armament, ~etc., to the Tacony.
Obtain as exact description of the Tacony as possible, and proceed
forthwith in search of her. As the rebels may change to another
vessel or may have other vessels engaged in like depredations, you will
visit every one you overhaul and satisfy yourself as to her true char-
acter, not allowing yourself to be deceived by any device, such as
change of vessel, rig, paint, or flag. Respect neutral ships and prop-
erty, but capture whatever is rebel, however disguised. Conce~tl the
warlike character of your own ship as much as may be necessary. If
your crew is not full, call for volunteers from other revenue vessels for
this cruise. Husband your coal as much as practicable, and touch
where advisable for necessary supplies. Report by telegraph from
Fortress Monroe in three weeks, and as often previously as practicable.
Be prompt and active, and omit nothing calculated to insure success.

S.	P. CHASE,
Secretary of the Treasury.
Captain JOHN MCGoWAN,
Commanding U. S. Revenue Steamer Cuyahoga,
New York Harbor.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Captain McGowan, commanding U. S. revenue steamer
Cuya1~oga, approving the instructions of the Secretary cf the Treasury.

	The foregoing directions of the Secretary of the Treasury are approved.
You will act in accordance with them while cooperating with the Navy
iu accordance with the directions of the President of the United States
of America, June 14, 1863.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Captain JOHN MCGOWAN,
Commanding U. S. Revenue Cutter Steamer Cuyahoga,
Harbor of New York.


Instructions of the commandant navy yard, i~ew York, to Leutenant-Commander Meade,
U. 5. Navy, commanding U. S. chartered steamer United States, relative to the search for the
C. S. bark Tacony.

NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, June 15, 1863.
	SIR: You will proceed to sea in the chartered steamer United States,
under your command, and steer eastward on the outer edge of the Gulf
Stream, carefully examining all the vessels you fall in with. Traverse
in the track of vessels bound from the eastward to the United States
when you arrive in or near the Banks of Newfoundland, and arrive in
New York when your want of fuel may render it necessary.
	Respectfully, your obedient servant,	II. PA~L~ING,

Commandant.
	Lieutenant-Commander R. W. MEADE,
Commanding U. S. Chartered Steamer United States, New York.

P.	5.Be governed by the information you may obtain

Page 280

280	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Instructions of the commandant navy yard, New York, to Commander Baldwin, U. S Navy,
commanding chartered steamer Blackatone, relative to the search for the C. S. bark Tacony.

NAVY YARD, NEW Y~Rx, June 15, 1863.

	SIR: Proceed to sea in the chartered steamer Blackstone, under your
command, and cruise for the pirate bark Tacony. Strike the Gulf
Stream and follow it easterly toward the Banks of Newfoundland,
examining all vessels yon may fall in with. Should you obtain infor-
mation of the Tacony, or any other vessel of suspicions character, be
governed by your discretion.
	It is not expected that you will be absent more than two weeks.
Enclosed is an extract of a telegram from the Navy Department.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
H.	PAULDING,
	Commandant.
	Commander A. S. BALDWIN,
Commanding Chartered A3teamer Blaek8tone, New York.


Instructions of the commandant navy yard, New York, to Lieutenant-Commander Matthews,
U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Marion, relative to search for C. S. bark Tacony.

Niv~ YARD, NEW YORK, June 15, 1863.
	SIR: Proceed to sea with the U. S. ship Marion, under your command,
and cruise for the pirate bark Tacony. Traverse between Sandy Hook
and the outer edge of the Gulf Stream, in the track of vessels approach-
ing New York, and wherever else your judgment shall indicate from
information yon may receive. Examine all vessels with care, and arrive
in New York in about ten days or two weeks. If the wind is favorable,
look in about Montauk and that part of the coast.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
H.	PAULDING,
	Commandant.
	Lieutenant-Commander E. 0. MATTHEWS,
Commanding U. ~. School-A3hip Marion, New York.


Instructions of the commandant navy yard, New York, to Lieutenant Commanding Kane, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. yacht America, relative to search for the C. S. bark Tacony.

NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, June 15, 1863.
	SIR: You will proceed to sea in the U. S. schooner yacht America,
under your command.
	Steer to the westward [f], keeping a safe distance from the land,
examining all vessels that you may fall in with, and obtain what infor-
mation you can of the pirate Tacony. Be governed by the information
yon may obtain iu shaping your course, and in the absence of infor-
mation that may guide you, steer to the southward when you arrive
off the capes of Delaware, sighting the coast of North Carolina, cross-
ing the Gulf Stream in or near the latitude of Cape Hatteras, there
traversing as it may suit your judgment, arriving in New York in ten
days from the time of your departure.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
	H. PAULDING,
	Lieutenant Commanding KANE,	Commandant.
Commanding U. AS~. Schooner [Yachtj America, New York

Page 281

OPERATIONS OF THE CI~UlSERSUNION.	281

Instructions of the commandant navy yard, New York, to Acting Master Seyburn, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. schooner Kittatinny, relative to the search for the C. S. bark Tacony.

NAVY YARD, NEW Yc7T~K, June 15, 1863.

	SIR: YOU will proceed to sea in the U. S. schooner Kittatinny, under
your command, and cruise for the pirate Tacony. You will proceed to
the eastward, keeping at a convenieut distance from the land. Exam-
ine all vessels that you may fall in with, and be governed by the infor-
ination you may obtain and your own judgment. Pursue your cruise
to the Banks of Newfoundland, keeping near the track of vessels home-
ward bound from the eastward. Not being able to give more specific
instructions, your own judgment must be your guide. It may be well
to bear in mind that the pirate crew may transfer themselves to some
other vessel, as they did from the Clarence.
	Respectfully, your obedient servant,	II. PAULDING,

Commandant.
	Acting Master I. D. SEYBIJRN,
Commanding U. S. Schooner Kittatinny, New York.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 15, 1863.
	Have you received the Departments order of yesterday, and have
the ]Jiiontgomery, Ethan Allen, and any other vessels gone V
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Commodore J. B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant Navy Yard, Boston, Mass.


[Telegram.]

	(Received at Washington, 11:25 a. in., June 15, 1863, from Charles-
town, Mass.)
	Provisions for one month will be placed on board each vessel to cruise
after the Tacony. How long shall they continue to search for that
vessel V Please answer immediately.
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
	lion. GIDEON WELLES.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 15, 1863.
	A fortnights cruise is sufficient. If she is not found in that time she
will have probably left the coast.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Commodore J. B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant Navy Yard, Boston, Mass

Page 282

	282	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		                 [Telegram.]

(Received at Washington, 11:40 a. in., June 15, 1863, from Charles.
town, Mass.)

	Teleg-ram received last evening. Using all efforts to procure the
vessels and dispatch them this evening. The Montgomery will be dis-
patched to her cruising ground to-morrow evening.
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


[Telegram.]

	(Received at Washington, 11:45 a. in., June 15, 1863, from Charles.
town, Mass.)

	The prize steamer Cherokee, now in the hands of the court, can be
got ready to cruise for the Tacony in forty-eight hours. Please answer
immediately if she is wanted.
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
	Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 15,1863.

	Send the prize steamer Cherokee to cruise for the Tacony.
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commodore J. B. MONTGOMERY,	Secretary of the Navy.
Commandant Yavy Yard, Boston, Mass.


Report of the commandant of the navy yard, Philadelphia, of having procured four vessels to
proceed in search of 0. S. bark Tacony.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE, U. S. NAVY YARD,
Philadelphia, June 15, 1863.
	SIR: I have procured three steamersASuwanee, Tonawanda, and
Americaand schooner Kate Stewart, to search for the pirate. They
wdl all leave in the course of the day. I enclose a copy of the orders
given to the officers in charge. There are no other vessels suitable for
this service to be had here immediately. I trust the four we send from
this place will give a good account of the freebooter.
	The howitzers and men were nearly ready when I received your tele-
gram ordering them not to be sent. The men to man the howitzers are
not enlisted persons, but day laborers who are seamen and volunteered
for this service, as they did last year.
	I think we have many more howitzers here than will be required
until the side-wheel steamers are ready, and none of them will be in
a month.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	K. STRIELING,

Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington City

Page 283

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	283

[Enc1o~ures.]

CO1~IMANDAT~TS OFFICE, U. S. NAVY YARD,
Philadel hia, June 15, 1863.
	SIR:	You will proceed to sea in the Tonawanda in search of the bark
Icteony, now in possession of rebels or pirates.
	You will overhaul every vessel you meet with to gain information, and
use every effort to capture or destroy the freebooter.
	After leaving the capes of the Delaware you will steam along the
coast until you are 30 miles north of the capes; you will then steer
east to the inner edge of the Gulf Stream, and then shape your course
for Cape Hatteras. You will not go south of this cape unless you
obtain certain information of the pirate~s being near.
	From Cape Hatteras you will follow the coast to Cape Henry and
then cruise along the coast to the edge of the Gulf Stream to the lati-
tude of the capes of the Delaware, and at the end of one week return
to Philadelphia.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	K. STRIBLINcf,
Commandant.
Lieutenant HENRY C. TALLMAN,
U.	~. ~l. Wachusett, Philadelphia.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE, U. S. NAVY YARD,
Philadelphia, June 15, 1863.
	SIR: You will proceed to sea in the Americ in search of the bark
Tacony, now in possession of rebels or pirates.
	You will overhaul every vessel you meet with to gain information,
and use every effort to capture or destroy the freebooter.
	After leaving the capes of the Delaware you will steer along the
coast until you are 30 miles south of the capes, and theneast to the
inner edge of the Gulf Stream, and then shape your course for Cape
Hatteras. You will not go south of that cape unless you obtain cer-
tain information of the pirates being near.
	From Cape Hatteras you will follow the coast to Cape Henry, and
cruise along the coast to the edge of the Gulf Stream to the latitudes
of the capes of the Delaware, and at the end of one week return to
Philadelphia.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	K. STRIBLING,
Commandant.
Acting Master MILLER H. JOIINSO
U.	S. Receiving Ship Princeton, Philadelphia.


COMMANDANTS OFFICE, U. S. NAVY YARD,
Philadelphia, June 15, 1863.
	SIR:	You will proceed to sea in the Suwanee in search of the bark
Tacony, now in possession of rebels or pirates.
	You will overhaul every vessel you meet with to gain information,
and use every effort to capture or dek troy the freebooter.
	Upon leaving the capes of the Delaware yon will steer east to the
inner edge of the Gulf Stream, and then shape your course for Cape
Hatteras. You will not go south of that cape unless you obtain cer-
tahi information of the pirates being near. From Cape Hatteras yo

Page 284

284	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

will follow the coast to Cape Henry, and then cruise along the coast to
the edge of the Gulf Stream to the latitudes of the capes of the IDela-
ware, and at the end of one week return to Philadelphia.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	K. STRIBLING,
Commandant.
	Acting Ensign G. W. CORNER,
U.	S. S~ Wachusett.


NAVY YARD, PHILADELPHIA, June 15, 1863.

	Siu: You will proceed to sea in the Kate Stewart in search of the
bark Tacony, now in possession of rebels or pirates.
	You will overhaul every vessel you meet with to gain information,
and use every effort to capture or destroy the freebooter.
	After leaving the capes of the Delaware you will steer along the coast
to the Highlands of Navesink, and then east to the edge of the Gulf
Stream and follow that to the south as far as Cape Hatteras. You will
not go south of that cape unless you obtain certaiu information of the
pirates being near. From Cape Hatteras you will follow the coast to
Cape Henry and then cruise along the coast to the edge of the Gulf
Stream to the latitude of the capes of the Delaware, and at the end of
one week return to Philadelphia.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	K. STRIBLINO,

Commandant.
	Acting Master JOHN WEST,
U.	S. Receiving Ship Princeton, Philadelphia, Pa.


Instructions of the commandant navy yard, Boston, to Acting Ensign Butman, U. S. navy,
ordered to command chartered schooner Jacob S. Whedon [Welden?] in the search for the
C. S. bark Tacony. NAVY YARD, BOSTON, June 15, 1863.


	SIR: You will proceed to sea with the schooner Jacob S. Whedon
We 14 en?] with the utmost possible dispatch2 the captain of which
vessel will sail on such a course as you may direct and who will be in
all respects subject to your orders, to search for the privateer bark
Tacony. When last seen [she] was in latitude 370 18 N., longitude
750 4 W., 40 miles from Cape Charles. Proceed outside the Nantucket
Shoals along the coast to Cape Hatteras, and cruise inside the stream
[Gulf Stream] between Cape Hatteras and Cape Charles.
	Should you fall in with the privateer you will capture and bring her to
this or the most convenient port in the United States. You will speak
all vessels that you may meet and take advantage of any reliable infor-
mation you receive from them that may lead to the capture of the
Tacony. You will cruise fourteen days on the grounds indicated, after
which you will return to this port and deliver all your men on board
the receiving ship Ohio.
	Previous to your sailing, call at the different officei and sign receipts
for the articles of ordnance stores, provisions, and nautical instruments
furnished you.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGO1~IERY,

(ommandant.
	Acting Ensign JAMES S. BUTMAN, U. S. Navy,
Boston, Mass

Page 285

OPERATiONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	285

Instructions of the commandant navy yard, New York, to the commanding o~icers of the
steamers Blackstone, Cumbria, and United States, relative to the search for the C. S. bark
Tacony.

N~Ew YORK NAVY YARD, June 16, 1863.

	SIR:	Do not proceed further east than longitude 620 on the 23d
instant, if it shall be convenient to pass the latitude 42~ N. and longi-
tude 620 W. Do not delay at the point indicated. The other steamers
that go to the eastward will have this direction, so that you may meet
and communicate; thence return to the harbor of New York.
	Respectfully, yours,	II. PAULDING,
	Commandant.
	Commander A. S. BALDWIN,
Commanding Chartered AS~teamer Blackstone.
	(Same to Lieutenant-Commander S. L. Breese, commanding Cumbria;
Lieutenant-Commander R. W. Meade, commanding United &#38; ates.)

Instructions of the commandant navy yard, New York, to Commodore Ringgold, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Sabine, relative to the search for the C. S. bark Tacony.

NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, June 16, 1863.

	SIR:	Proceed to sea with the frigate Sabine, under your command,
and cruise for the pirate Tacony.
	I would suggest that you cross the Gulf Stream in the direction of
Bermuda, a~d traversesthe track of our homeward-bound vessels from
the eastward and South Atlantic. I design to send a number of vessels
to the eastward and along the coast to the westward. The school-ship
Marion will cruise between Sandy Hook and Gulf Stream, and perhaps
beyond it. In this, as with yourself, the information you may obtain
and your own judgment must be your guide. I deem it necessary that
careful examination should be made of all vessels fallen in with. The
crew of the Tacony are said to have no other arms than small arms.
The bark was in ballast when captured by the Clarence. The crew
were transferred to the Tacony and the Clarence burned. If a better
vessel is captured by the pirates they may again transfer themselves.
I enclose extracts from two telegrams from the Department.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
	II. PAULDING,

Commandant.
Commodore C. RIN~GOLD,
Commanding U. S. Frigate Sabine, New York.

Instructions of the commandant navy yard, New York, to Acting Master Cressy, U. S. Navy,
commanding chartered steamer Curlew, relative to cruise in search of C. S. bark Tacony.

NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, June 16, 1863.

	SIR:	Proceed to sea in the chartered steamer Curlew, under your
command, and cruise for the pirate Tacony.
	You will traverse the sea inside the Gulf Stream to the westward 200
miles from Sandy Hook, thence traverse inside your line of cruising and
proceed to the eastward, sighting Montauk and the adjacent coast. Con-
tinue to cruise to the eastward, traversing from the Gulf Stream to a
convenient distance from the shore, examiniyig carefully all vessels that
you may fall in with, and obtain what information you can of the pirat

Page 286

286	OPERATIONS OF THE CEUI8ERStTNION.

Tacony or any other vessels that have preyed upon our commerce.
Return to New York in ten or twelve days. Vary your cruise accord-
ing to the information you may receive and your qwn judgment.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
H.	PAULDING,
Commandant.
	Acting Master W. K. CRESSY,
Commanding U. S. Chartered Steamer Curlew.


[Telegram.]

BROOKLYN, June 16, 1863.
(Received at Washington 3:45 p. in.)
	Dispatch received. Admiral Foote will g~ in the Union on 18th he
is not very well; have not seen him to-day. The ]iiliarion has sailed;
America about leaving; Sabine goes this afternoon. Steamers United
States and Curlew leave at 6 p. in.; the Blackstone and Cumbria a little
later. Sail vessels could not be prepared in time.
	H. PAULDING,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	[Commandant.]
Secretary iYavy.


Instructions of the commandant navy yard, Boston, to Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Paucon,
U.	S. Navy, commanding U. S. 5. Montgomery, relative to the search for the 0. 5. bark
Tacony.
NAVY YARD, B OSTON~ June 16, 1863.
	SIR: You will proceed to sea with the U. S. S. Montgomery, under
your command, with the utmost possible dispatch, to search for the pri-
vateer bark Tacony, which, when last seen, was in latitude 370 18 N.,
longitude 750 4 W. You will cruise off Nantucket Shoals, your line
of observation to extend from Little Georges Shoals to Block Island.
	Should you fall in with the Tacony, you will capture and bring her
to this or to the most convenient port in the United States. You
will speak all vessels you meet, and take advantage of any reliable
information you receive from them that may lead to the capture of the
privateer. After cruising as long as the quantity of coal you have on
board will admit ot; not exceeding fourteen days, you will return to this
port.
	Previous to sailing, call at the different offices and sign receipts for
your stores, etc.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
	Acting Volunteer Lieutenant E. H. FAIJOON,
Commanding U. S. S. Montgomery, Navy Yard, Boston.

Instructions of the commandant navy yard, Boston, to Acting Ensign Strong, U. S. Navy,
ordered to command U. 5. 5. Cherokee, in the search for the C. S. bark Tacony.

NAVY YARD, BOSTON, June 16, 1863.
	SIR: You are hereby appointed temporarily to the command of the
steamer Cherokee, with which vessel you will proceed to sea, using the
utmost possible dispatch to search for the priv~teer bark Tacony, which,
when last seen, was in latitude 370 18 N., longitude 750 4 W

Page 287

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	287

	From the shoals of Nantucket you will cruise within 60 miles on
either side of a line drawn due S. W. by S. from Cape Cod in the direc-
tion of Cape Hatteras, approaching to within 80 mites of the cape, with
the view of intercepting the Tacony on her passage to Halifax, should
she attempt to make that port. Shonld you fall in with her, you will
capture and bring her to this or the most convenient port in the United
States. You will speak all vessels you meet, and take advantage of
any reliable information you may receive from them likely to lead to
the capture of the Tacony. You will cruise fourteen days on the ground
in(licated, after which.you will return to this port.
	Previous to sailing you will call at the different offices and sign
receipts for the articles furnished you.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
Acting Ensign F. W. STRONG,
liT. ~. ~. Cambridge, Navy Yard, Boston.
	P.	S.Be careful to reach port before the entire consumption of your
coal.

Order of the commandant of the navy yard, Boston, to the Navy agent, Boston, Mass., to charter
sin sailing vessels for the search of C. S. bark Tacony.

NAVY YARD, BoSTON, June 16, 1863.

	Sin:	You will charter six moderate-sized, fast sailing vessels, to
cruise in search of the privateer Tacony. They will be required for
about two ~ cruising at sea.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,

Commandant.
E.	L. NORTON, Esq.,

Navy Agent, Boston.


Order of the commandant navy yard, Boston, to Lieutenant-Commander West, U. S. Navy,
to furnish arms and ammunition for sin chartered vessels for the search for the C. S. bark
Tacony.

NAVY YARD, BoSTON, June 16, 1863.

	Sin:	You will supply the six vessels chartered to cruise after the
privateer Tacony with 2 howitzers each, muskets, small arms, etc.,
with ammunition for 25 men. You will also furnish the Cherokee 2 how-
itzers and small arms, with ammunition for 50 men.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,

Commandant.
	Lieutenant-Commander W. C. WEST,
Assistant Inspector of Ordnance, Navy Yard, Boston.


Instructions of the commandant navy yard, Boston, to Acting Ensign Chase, U. S. Navy,
ordered to command schooner Amee [Amy?] in the search for the C. S. bark Tacony.

NAVY YARD, BOSTON, June 16, 1863.
	Sin:	You will proceed to s~a with the schooner Amee [Amy?] with
the utmost possible dispatch, th8 captain of which vessel will sail o

Page 288

288	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

such a course as you may direct, and who will be in all respects sub-
ject to your orders, to search for the privateer bark Tacony. When last
seen [she] was in latitude 370 18 N., longitude 7~ 4 W. After clear-
ing the shoals, proceed on a direct course, avoiding the current of the
stream [Gulf Stream], to Cape Henry, and cruise between that point
on the coast and the capes of Delaware.
	Should you fall in with the Tacony, you will capture and bring her
to this or the most convenient port .of the United States. You will
speak all vessels you meet and take advantage of any information you
receive from them that may lead to the capture of the privateer. You
will cruise fourteen days over the ground indicated, after which time
you will return to this port and deliver the men on board the receiving
ship Ohio.
Previous to sailing, call at the different offices and sign receipts.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J. B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
	Acting Ensign WHITMAN CHASE, U. S. Navy,
Boston, Mass.


Instructions of the commandant navy yard, Boston, to Acting Ensign Peakes, Th S. Navy,
ordered to command chartered schooner Sarah Burton in the search for the C. S. bark
Tacony.
NAVY YARD, BOSTON, June 16, 1863.
	SIR:	You~will proceed to sea with the schooner ~Sarah Burton, with the
utmost possible dispatch, the captain of which vessel will sail on such
a course as you may direct, and be in all respects subject to your orders,
to search for the privateer bark Tacony, which, when last seen, was in
latitude 370 18 N., longitude 750 4 W., 40 miles from Cape Charles.
You will run as far to the eastward as the longitude of Halifax, and
cruise between that point and Cape Sable, keeping within 60 or 70 miles
of the coast.
	Should you fall in with the privateer, you will capture her and bring
her to this or the most convenient port in the United States. You will
speak all vessels that you may meet and take advantage of any reliable
information you may receive from them likely to lead to the capture of
the Tacony. You will cruise fourteen days on the grounds indicated,
after which you will return to this port and deliver your men on board
the receiving ship Ohio.
	Previous to your sailing you will call at the different offices and sign
receipts for the articles of ordnance stores, provisions, and nautical
instruments furnished you.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,

Commandant.
	Acting Ensign THOMAS M. PEAICES, U. S. Navy,
Commanding ~S~arah Burton, Navy Yard, Boston.


Instructions of the commandant navy yard, Boston, to Acting Ensign Mead, U. S. Navy, com-
manding bark Young Turk, relative to the search for the 0. S. bark Tacony.

NAVY YARD, BOSTON, June 16, 1863.

	SIR:	You will proceed to sea with the bark Young Turk, using the
utmost possible dispatch, to search for the privateer bark Tacony

Page 289

OPERXTIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	289

which, when last seen, was in latitude 370 18 N., longitude 750 4 W,
40 miles from Cape Charles. The captain of the Young Turk will sail
on such a course as you may direct, and be in al~ respects subject to
yonr orders. You will run to the thirty-seventh degree N. latitude,
longitude ~70 W., and thence in a direct course for Halifax to latitude
4~30, longitude G5~, and cruise in that vicinity during the time allotted
to you.
	Should you fall in with the privateer, you will capture her and bring her
to this J)ort, or the most convenient port in the United States. You will
speak all vessels that you may meet and take advantage of any reliable
information you may receive from them likely to lead to the capture of
the Tacony. You will cruise fourteen days on the grounds indicated,
after which you will return to this port and deliver your men on board
the receiving ship Ohio.
	Previous to your sailing you will call at the different offices and sign
receipts for the articles of ordnance stores, provisions, and nautical
instruments furnished you.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,

Commandant.
Acting Ensign SAMUEL II. MEAD,

Commanding Bark Young Turk, Na~cy Yard, Boston.



Instructions of the commandant navy yard, Boston, to Acting Ensign Bunting, U. S. Navy,
ordered to command chartered schooner Herbert Manter in the search for the C. S. bark
Tacony.

NAVY YAn~, BoSTON, June 16, 1863.
	SIR: You will proceed to sea with the schooner herbert Miantcr,
using the ntmuost possible dispatch, to search for the bark Tacony, which,
when last seen, was in latitude 370 18 N., longitude 750 04 W., 40 miles
from Cape Charles. The captain of the herbert ]Jlianter will sail on
such a course as you may direct, and be in all respects subject to your
orders. You will proceed outside the Nantucket Shoals, along the coast
to Cape Hatteras, and cruise inside the streama [Gulf Stream] between
Cape hatteras and Cape Charles.
	Should you fall in with the l)rivateer, you will capture her and bring
her to this or the most convenient port in the United States. You will
sl)eak all vessels that you may meet, amid take a(lvantage of any reliable
information you may receive from themn likely to lead to the capture of
time Tacony. You will cruise fourteen (lays on the groun(Is indicated,
after which you will return to this port amid deliver your mnen on board
the receiving ship Ohio.
	Previous to your sailing you will call at the different offices and sign
recell)ts for the articles of ordnance stores, provisions, and miantical
in struinet its furnished y on.
lam, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,

Commandant~
Acting Ensign J. H. BUNTING-,
(Jommanding Herbert Manter, Navy Yard, Boston.
N W HVOL 111

Page 290

290	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
Instrictions of the commandant navy yard, boston, to Acting Ensign Small, U. S. Navy,

ordered to command chartered bark Trinity in the search for the C. S. bark Tacony.

NAVY YARD, Bos~oN, June 16, 1863.

	SIR: You will proceed to sea with the bark Trinity, using the utmost
possible dispatch, to search for the privateer bark Tacony, which, when
last seen, was in latitude 370 18 N., longitude 750 4 W. The captain
of the Trinity will be in all respects subject to your orders. You will
cruise between Cape Sable and Cape Cod, passing alternately outside
and inside of St. Georges [Georges] Shoals no
days, and should you fall in with the Tacony t longer than fourteen
you will capture and bring
her to this, or the most convenient port in the United States.
	You will speak all vessels you meet and take advantage of any infor-
mation you receive from them that may lead to the capture of the pri-
vateer. After cruising as above indicated you will return to this port
and deliver your men on board the receiving ship Ohio.
	Previous to sailing, call at the different offices and sign receipts for
the articles furnished you.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
	Acting Ensign A. SMALL, U. S. Navy,
Boston, JIfass.


[Telegram.]

CHARLESTOWN [MASS.], June 16, 18637:10 p. m.
(Ileceived at Washington 8: 01 p. in.)
	Five of the chartered vessels have sailed in pursuit of the Tacony;
the remaining one, with the steamer Montgomery, will leave some time
during ~he night; the Cherokee as soon as ready to-morrow.
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
~Seeretary Navy.


[Telegram.]

CHARLESTOWN, MASS., June 17, 186311:20 a. m.
(Heceived at Washington 11:45 a. in.)
	U. S. S. Jlfontgomery and chartered bark Trinity have sailed in
search of the Tacony.
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.



Instructions of the commandant navy yard, New York, to Lieutenant-Commander Breese,
U.	S. Navy, commanding chartered steamer Cumbria, relative to the search for the C. S.
bark Tacony.
NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, June 17, 1863.

	SIR: Proceed with the chartered steamer 61umbria and cruise for the
pirate bark Tacony a~nd all other vessels that iinay have interrupted our
commerce. Shape your course on the inner edge of the Gulf Strea

Page 291

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	291

to the westward for 200 or 300 miles, traversing the sea inshore;
then steer to the southward and around the islaud of Bermuda, trav-
ersing as you may thiuk best, approaching our southern coast within
50 miles as you advance, and when you are to the ~vestward and south-
ward of Bermuda traverse in the way of our commerce from the South
Atlantic Ocean. Examine with care the vessels you may meet, and be
governed by the information you may obtaiii, returning to New York
in about teii days, unless your information shall render it important
for you to keep to sea longer.
Respectfully, your obedieut servant,
II.	PAULPING,
Commandant.
Lieutenant-Commander S. L. BREESE,
Commanding Chartered Steamer Cumbria, New York.


Letter from Acting Rear-Admiral Lee, U. S. Navy, commanding North Atlantic Blockading
Squadron, enclosing the report of Acting Master Gregory, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Western World, of a cruise in search of the C. S. bark Tacony.

U. S. FLAGSHIP MINNESOTA,
Off Newport News, Va., June 18, 1863.
	SIR: I forward herewith the report, dated Jniie 17, of the cruise of
the U. S. S. Western World to the northward of Cape Charles iii search
of the~ rebel privateers.
	A tabular statement of the vessels spoken and boarded by the
Western Woi~ld during her cruise is also enclosed, and includes the
following:
	Schooner Leroy (boarded June 14, 6 miles SE. of Cape Henry. from New York for
Baltimore) reported speakin_ schooner Kate Stewart, for Philadelphia, who reported
being l)oarded by C. S. S. Florida on the a. in. of the 13th, and put on board 4 cap-
tured crews in latitude 370 20 N., longitude 740 45 N., and burned 2 vessels.
	The Florida bore from the Leroy S. S. B. 22 miles at 2 p. in., 13th instant; painted,
light-colored hail, bright mastheads, and full brig rigged, Captain Maffitt coin-
manding.

	The Western World arrived here yesterday morning, having carried
away her rudderhead. Her commanding officer reports her as unfit for
outside sea service.
	I have sent her to the Gosport [Norfolki navy yard for repairs.
I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, yours,
S.	P. LEE,
Actin~q Rear-Admiral, Comdg. North Atlantic Blockading Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
[Enclosure.]

U. S. S. WESTERN WORLD,
Newport News, Va., June 17, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that on Saturday, the 13th, at 11
oclock, I proceeded to sea, according to your instructions, to cruise to
the northward of Cape Charles. On Tuesday, at noon, while in lati-
tude 380 28 N., and longitude 1490 28 W., a cross sea running at the
time, the vessel laboring and rolling deep, carried away the rudderhead.
After considerable exertion we succeeded in getting the vessel head to
the sea and rigged a temporary purchase for steering, and proceeded to
KewDort News

Page 292

292	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	Accompanying this report is a tabular statement of vessels spoken
during the cruise, but iu consequence of the roughness of the sea there
were some vessels that we could not speak, as it ~vas unsafe to run in
the trough of the sea, as she rolled so deep that she was liable to lift
her ~uards.
	The Western World is, in my jud~ment, unfit for outside sea service.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
SAMUEL 13. GREc~ORY,
Acting Master, Commanding.
	Acting liear-Adiniral SAMUEL P. LEE,
Commanding North Atlantic Blockading ~Squadron,
Newport News, Va.



Report of Acting VoJunteer Lieutenant Stodder, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Adela, of
cruise in search of the C. S. bark Tacony.

U. S. S. ADELA,
Hampton Roads, Thursday, June 18, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of this vessel at this port
for the purpose of coaling. Ii left the navy yard, New York, at 8 p. nii.,
June 1:3, for Key West, in obedience to orders received from the ]Jel)art-
nient. At 2:45 a. in. of the 14th received orders from Itear-Admiral
Paulding to proceed to sea without delay and cruise for the privateer
Clarence [To.conyl. I have cruised as far south as ()cracoke Inlet, and
eastward as fur as the Gulf, overhauling and boarding 11 vessels seen.
I take pleasure in reporting that this vessel, with 25 pounds steam,
made 14 knots per hour, in a moderately heavy sea, and has proved to
be a fine sea boat, carrying her battery perfectly dry. I shall be ready
for sea to-morrow evening. I request to know whether I shall carry
out my original orders and proceed to Key West.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
LOUIS N. STODDER,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Sec~etary of the Navy.


[Telegram.]

NAvy 1)EPARTMENT, June 18, 1863.

	The last heard of the Tacony was east of Indian River Inlet, south
of the Delaware, 50 miles distant, on Sunday morning last. They may
shift from vessel to vessel, requiring very careful scrutiny to (letect
them. Proceed to sea as early as practicable, and use your coal very
carefully. You should not run 14 knots except for an object.
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Lieutenant STODDER,	[Secretary of the Navy.
Commanding U. S. S. Adela, Hampton Roads

Page 293

OPERATIONS OF	THE CRUISERSUNION. 293

[Telegram.]

NEWPORT NEWS, June 19, 1863.
(Received at WashNgton 2: 25 p. III.)
	Commodore Jones returned from cruise. No news. Reported unfit
fb~~ duty outside except in fair weather.
S.	P. LEE,
Acting Rear-Admiral.
	lion. GIDEON WELLES,
&#38; eretary of the Navy.


Report of Lieutenant-Commander Neade, U. S. Navy, commanding chartered steamer United
States, of the capture by that vessel, while searching for the C. S. bark Tacony, of the
brig Isabella Thompson.

U.	S. S. UNITED STATES,
At &#38; a, Lat. 4j0 N., Long. 670 10 W., June 19, 1863.
	Sin: 1 have tile honor to report tbat in the above latitude and longi-
tude I fell in with and captured the brig Isabella Thompson, loaded with
turpentine and cotton, showing English colors, and said to be from
Nassau, bound to Halifax. Havin~ reason to believe, from the suspicious
manner in which the brig acted in carrying all sail and not heaving to
when sighted by us, althollgh fired at, as well as certain letters found
among the papers implicating Messrs. l)oilner, Potter &#38; Co., of New
York. in blockade running, I have taken possession of the vessel and
placed her in charge of Acting Ensign II. F. Moffat, with orders to
proceed to N,ew York alld deliver the vessel to the prize marshal. You
will see by the crew list that the vessel cleared from Halifax for a port or
ports in the West Indies, from thence to a port in the United States,
and so back to Halifax. My belief is that she has run the blockade at
Wilmington, N. C., and that I)erhaps she has tonched at Nassau. In
consequence of the two iml)ortallt letters referred to, I h ye (leemed it
my duty to send the vessel in to New York and have ordered Mr.
Moffat to report with papers to you before turning over vessel and cargo
to the marshal. I h ye retained the captaill and crew lintil my return
to New York, which will probably be in ten days. I have, since leaving
New York, boarded and overhauled thirteen vessels, but have as yet
seen nothing of the rebel privateers. Officers and crew all well.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
RICHARD XV. MEADE, Ju
Lieutenant- Commander, U. S. Navy.
	Admiral II. PAITLDING,
(Jommandant U. S. Nary Yard New York.

[Tele am.]

NAvY DEPARTMENT, June 19, 1863.
	The report of the Leroy must be incorrect or misunderstood. The
Kate Stewart was boarded by a tender of the Florida, ,June 12, at 10
a. in., latitude 370 1~,ion gitude 750 5, an(1 ran somned for ~7,000. The
crews of the vessels burned were put on board of her and she arrived at
Philadelphia and was sent after the pir te (liacony) which committed
the ontrages.
	Make further enquiry and inform the Department. The Leroy reports
having seen the Florida, and describes her.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy.
	Acting Rear-Admiral S. P. LEE,
Old Point Gon~t~rt, Va

Page 294

294	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS-UNION.

Letter from Acting Rear-Admiral Lee, U. S. Navy, commanding North Atlantic Blockading
Squadron, to the Secretary of the Navy, transmitting a further report from Acting Master
Gregory, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Western World, rega~ding news of C. S. S. Florida.

U. S. FLAGSHIP MINNESOTA,
Ofl~ Newport News, Va., June 20, 1863.
	SIR:	On receipt of the Departments telegraphic dispatches of yes-
terday, received last evening, I required from Acting Master Gregory,
commanding U. S. S. Western World, a further statement in explaiuia-
tion of the report regarding the Leroy and the information obtained
from that vessel respecting the Kate Stewart, boarded by the privateer
Florida. The enclosed is his reply, of this date.
I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, yours,
S.	P. LEE,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Oomdg. North Atlantic Blockading Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
[Enclosure.]

U. S. S. WESTERN WORLD,
Norfolk Nary Yard, Va., June 20, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of yonrs of the
19th ultimo, en closing telegraphic dispatch from Washington request
ing further information regarding the schooner Leroy, which spokeethe
Kate Stewart after she had been boarded by the rebel privateer Florida.
We spoke the Leroy on Sunday morning, the 14th, at 9 oclock a. in., 10
miles E. N. E. from Cape Henry. I sent John Ross, my executive officer,
on board, and the captain made the following statement:
	At 2 oclock p. in., on the 12th instant, 570 20 N., 740 45W.,sawa
schooner hoist her ensign. Bore away and ran alongside, when she
proved to be the schooner Kate Stewart, of Philadelphia, the master of
which reported to mue having been boarded by the rebel steamer Florida
the same morning, and put on board the Kate Stewart several crews of
captured vesselstwo crews belonged to vessels burned that morning
aimd that the Florida bore from them then S. S. B., distant about 22
miles; hull painted lead color, bright masthead (brig rig), and com-
inanded by Captain Maffitt. I enquired how the captain of the Kate
Stewart knew him to be Captain Maffitt. His reply was that lie knew
him personally previons to the war.
	The Leroy hails from Baltimore, Md., and the captain stated that he
was bound there, where further information may be obtained.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
SAMUEL B. GREGORY,
Acting Master, Commanding.
	Acting Rear-Adufiral S. P. LEE,
Commanding North Atlantic Blockading Squadron,
Newport News, Va.


Report of Lieutenant-Commander Chaplin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Dai Ching, of the
cruise of that vessel in searching for the C. S. bark Tacony.

U.	S. S. DAI CHING,
Hampton Roads, June 20, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that I left New York Sunday, June
14, in obedience to an order from Admiral Paulding to cruise for th

Page 295

295
OPERATIONS OP THE ORIJISERSUNION.
privateer Tacony. During that time I cruised betweeii the latitude 360
20 N. and 370 N., and east to the meridian of 740 I boarded no ves-
sels, being unable, from the slowness of this vess~, to overhaul them
under the most favorable circumstances. She only went 5~ knots, and
in a seaway from 2~ to 4. I think if the vessel could be brought down
by the stern so as to submerge the propeller she might go 9 knots in
smooth water, but I am not able to do it with the means I have on board.
As a cruiser she is of little service, as you will see by the report of the
senior engineer. The U. S. steamers Adela, Sumpter, Commodore Jones,
and America spoke this vessel.
Having but one days coal left, I put in here for supply.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	C. CHAPLIN,
Lieutenant- Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


~Te1egram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 20, 1863.
Let the Ethan Allen cruise for a fortnight after the Tacony.
	GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Commander JNO. B. MONTGOMERY
Commandant Navy Yard, Boston.


Instructions of the Secretary of the Navy to the commandant navy yard, Philadelphia, rela-
tive to U. S. S. Shenandoah.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 20, 1863.
	SIR:	Your No. 278 has been received. Instead of returning to Phila-
deiphia, direct the Shenandoah to make her trial trip to Boston, where
she will fill up her complement and wait orders. On the way, which
need not be direct, let her look out for the Tacony, bearing in mind that
the pirates may have shifted to some other vessel.
	Very respectfully, etc.,	GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.
Commodore C. K. STRIBLING-,
Commandant Navy Yard, Philadelphia.


Report of the comm.Lndant, navy yard, New York, to the Secretary~ of the Navy of tie return
of the U. S. S. Marion.

NAvY YARD, NEW YoRK, June 21, 1863.

	SIR:	I have to report the arrival of the U. S. school-ship Marion at
this station last evening from a cruise. As yet I have received no
written report from her commander.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
II.	PAIJLDING,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy, Washington

Page 296

296	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Commander Rolando, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Seminole, of the cruise of
that vessel in search of the C. S. bark Tacony.

U.	~. S. SEMINOLE,
Navy Yard, Philadelphia, June 21, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform the Department that on the niorning
of the 14th, in obedience to an order of Rear-Admiral Paulding to
cruise for a piratical vessel reported to Ii ave captured three American ves-
sels off the capes of Virginia, I proceeded to sea from Sandy Hook in
search of the Clarence, the reported vessel.
	I deemed it best and prudent to make such a track as would insure
my falling in with the Clarence and at the s me time I)rOtect our iiiward-
bound vesse]s.
	I selected as the best course the inner edge of the Gulf Stream, until
I should strike to the southward of the capes of Delaware and th en
to run for the place where the Clarence was last seen~ from that point
to cruise off to the southward and eastward in search of the reported
pirate. I did not think, from the prevailing winds, that the Clarence
could have made any way, up to that time, to the northward, but would
keep off to the Gulf Stream and cut off our vessels bound in toxvard
the coast.
	With these views of the probable course of the Clarence and her
locality, I cruised on the inner edge of the Gulf Stream, running to the
southward and entering in well off the capes of Virginia. I then
cruised to the southward and eastward as thr as latitude 350 30 N
longitude 720 W.
	During my cruise Icommunicated with every suspicious vessel answer-
ing the description of the Clarence, and passed many vessels, but could
neither find tl~e Clarence nor hear any tidings of her.
	I then proceeded to make a northern track, and cruised back, keep-
ing on the inner edge of the Gulf Stream. On the 20th, my coal being
exhausted off the capes of Delaware, I have come to this place as the
best and most convenient depot to obtain the necessary coal for this
ship. I would report to the Department that not once during my cruise
did I have less than 14 inches of water in the ship, mior with the donkey
pumps, three in number, working continually, could the quantity be
decreased, and it was only by using the main pumps of the ship that I
could get below that number of inches.
	By stopping the pumps I find that the ship has a leak of from 5 to 6
inches per hour; from the armory being wet and much water in the
spirit room and paymasters slop room, and its pouring in through the
sides to the bunkers, the steam escaping from the ship at her snrface
cocks, I must infer that the leaks are ~11 the upper works of the ship
and that they will require calking. I request, therefore, that I may
be allowed to calk the ~Seninolc before going to sea again.
	I would inform the Department that the &#38; minole has a speed of 11
knots per hour, with 60 revolutions, and c n be driven faster should an
emergency reqfiire it. In all respects I am pleased with the vessel, and
particularly with her steadiness, as most vessels of her class roll so as
to interfere with fighting their pivot guns.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, ~ ROLANDO,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 297

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	297

[Telegram.]

U.	S. FLAc-SHIP MIY~NESOTA, June 22, 1863-5 r. m.
(Received at WashP~gtou 6:45 p. in.)
	Tuscarora just arrived. Out eight days. Was off Bermuda. Saw
nothing and heard nothing. Wants coal and w its orders.
S.	P. LEE,
Acti g Rear-Admiral.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


Report of Commander Parker, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, of the arrival of
that vessel at Hampton Roads, Va.

U.	S. S~n~ SLOOP TUSCARORA,
hampton Roads, Va., June 22, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of the Tusearora at this
place to-day at 4 oclock p. in.
	During the past week this vessel has been employed in cruising
between our coasts and the islands of Bermuda after l)iiatical vessels,
but none have been seen. I shall prOcee(l to sea again so soon as I can
take in the necessary supply of coal.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. A. 1~ARKER,
Comm ander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

Report of the commandant navy yard. New York, of the return of chartered steamer Cumbria,
Lieutenant-Commander Breese, U. S. Navy, transmitting reports in regard to cruise.

NAVY YARD, INEW YORK, June 22, 1863.
	Siu: I have to report the arrival of the U. S. chartere(l steamer
Cumbria. Lieutenant-Commander S. L. Breese. I enclose heiewith a
report of the chief engineer of the vessel, relative to an accident to the
machinery which caused her return; also copies of communications
relative to tile capture of the English schooner Glen and the arrest of a
deserter from the U. S. bark Ge~w~bok.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. RADFORD,
For Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.
[Enclosures.]

U.	S. CHARTERED STE MIER CU1Vfl3RIA,
At Sea, Lat. 350 48 N., Long. 730 47 W., June 20, 1863.
	SIR: I hereby certify that one of the journals of the main shaft is
broken, and the shaft is settling so bad that it causes the other journals
to heat so bad a continual stream of water has to be kept playing on
them all the time.
	I think the engine will not be able to hold out over three days, and I
would recommend you to proceed back to New York under a slow head
of steam, as the engine is not safe.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
W . H. ,JOHNSON,
Chief Engineer, of Steamer Cunibria.
	Lieutenant-Commander BREESE, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Steamer Cumbria

Page 298

298	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

U.	S. CHARTERED STEAMER CUMBRIA,
At Sea, Lat. 350 N., Long. 730 47 W., June 20, 1863.
	Sin:	I send in charge of Acting Ensign Wi~l1iam Mero and five of
my crew the English schooner Ulen. The reason why I arrest this
schooner is she cleared for Nassau, New Providence, and her captain
says he is bound to New York.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
S.	LIYJNL~STON BREESE,
	Lieutenant Commander, U. S. Navy, Comdg. Steamer Cumbria.
Rear-Admiral H. PAIJLD1NO~
Commanding New York Naval Station, New York.


U.	S. CHARTERED STEAMER CUMBRIA,
At Sea, Lat. 370 42 N., Long. 740, 50 W., June 19, 1863.
	Sin:	I have the honor to inform you that when boarding the brig
West, from St. Thomas, [West Indies], bound to Philadelphia, I took
from her A. B. Noles, ordinary seaman, a deserter from the U. S. bark
(iemsbok. I would respectfully recommend him to mercy, as his con-
duct on board my ship has beeii good.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
S.	LIYIN~STON BREESE,
	Lieutenant- Commander, U. S. Navy, Comdg. Steamer 6~umbria.
Rear-Admiral II. PAULDING,
	Contmanding New York Naval Station, New York.


Report of Lieutenant-Commander Matthews, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Marion, of the
cruise of that vessel in searching for the C. S. bark Tacony.

U.	S. PRAcTicE Snip MARION,
New York, June 22, 1863.
	Sin:	On the 16th 1 proceeded to sea with the U. S. practice ship
Marion, in obedience to your order of the 15th, to cruise in search of the
pirate Tacony.
	Being towed clear of Sandy Hook, I stood to the southward and
eastward examining all the vessels we could get near enough to. On
the evening of the 17th, being in the edge of the Gulf Stream, in lati-
tude 390 40 N., longitude 710 W., we experienced a series of heavy
squalls from various directions, aceoml)a1~ied with rain and lightning.
Being obliged by the squalls to put the ships head to sea, which was
considerable at the time, she pitched a great deal, and, as I learned the
next day, started the bolts of the cap bobstay and cracked the shackle
(in cutwater) of the outer one. About (3 p. m. were struck three times
by lightning. The last stroke brought about half of the main con-
ductor on deck. Having experienced enough Gulf Stream weather in
a condemned ship, and with nearly all the midshipmen an(l acting lieu-
tenants (midshipmen of first class) seasick, I concluded to stand to the
westward in hopes of finding better weather, but during the 18th the
weather not improving and on the 19th getting the wind fresh from
E. S. E. with every prospect of easterly weather, and the ship not being
in a fit condition for beating in a seaway, I wore ship and ran inside
Sandy Hook, where I anchored. During $he cruise we have neithe

Page 299

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	299

seen nor heard of anything piratical. I have but one line officer
besides myself, Lieutenant Marvin. The midshipmen of the first class
doing the duty of lieutenants have as yet had o~ly three months
experience at sea, and never before in charge of the deck. The ship is
iu no way prepared to meet heavy weather.
IL am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
E.	ORVILLE MATTHEWS,
Lieutenant- Commander, Commanding.
	Rear-Admiral H. PAULDINQ
Commanding Navy Yard, Brooklyn, N. Y.


Order of the commandant navy yard, Philadelphia, to CaptainR~dgely, U. S. Navy, command-
ing U. S. S. Shenandoah, to proceed on trial trip to Boston, keeping a lookout for the C. S.
bark Tacony.

NAVY YARD, PHILADELPHIA, June 22, 1863.

	Sin: After taking on board your ammunition from the magazine, you
will proceed to sea upon the trial trip under the instructions heretofore
given. Your trial trip will terminate at Boston. On your way there
you need not go direct, but vary your course, and look out for the
Tacony, bearing in mind the pirates may have shifted to some other
vessel.
You	will fill up your complement at Boston and wait orders.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	K. STRIBLING,
Commandant.
	Captain DANL. B. RID~ELY,
U.	~. ~. shenandoah, Philadelphia.



Instructions of the commandant navy yard, Boston, to Acting Master Pennell, U. S. Navy, com-
manding U. S. bark Ethan Allen, relative to cruise in search of the C. S. bark Tacony.

BOSTON NAVY YARD, June 22, 1863.

	Sin: You will proceed to sea with the U. S. bark Ethan Allen, under
your command, using the utmost possible dispatch, to search for the
nrivateer bark Tacony, which, when lastseen, was in latitude 370 18 N.,
Ion gitude 750 4 W.
	You will proceed between the lines of latitude 400 N., longitude 630
30 W., and the coasts of Nova Scotia and the United States. Should
you fall in with the privateer, you will capture her and bring her to
this or the most convenient port in the United States.
	You will speak all vessels you meet, and take advantage of any reli-
able informatiou you may receive from them likely to lead to the cap-
ture of the Tacony. You will cruise fourteen days over the grounds indi-
cated, after which you will return to this port and report to me.
	Previous to sailing you will call at the different offices and sign
receipts for articles furnished you.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,

Commandant.
	Acting Master I. A. PENNELL,
Commanding U. S. Bark Ethan A lien, Navy Yard, Boston

Page 300

300	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from Messrs. Nesmith &#38; Sons to the Secretary of the Navy suggesting measures of
protection to American commerce in view of depredations by the C. S. bark Tacony and
others.

NEw YORK, June 22, 1863.
	SIR:	We h ave a report that on Saturday morning the fine packet
ship Isaac Webb was captured by the pirate Tacony, and, having passen-
gers on board, was put under bonds for $40.OOQ.
	This pirate being so close at ha~nd, it would seem as if our naval ves-
sels could rid us of this one, at least, particularly as he is reported to
carry only two wooden guns and one brass; but what do we see? Why,
we see the vessels that were sent away only a few dayswe might say
hoursago returning, not having accomplished auythin g. One of them
reports having beeu forty hours on a cruise for priva~teers, and, losiag
his bobstay, returned. If the Government were to put a price (suffi-
cient to create competition) on these pirates and grant commissions to
individuals for their capture ( tid destruction, would it not mswer a
better purpose than anything that has yet been done? As matters
stand now, our glorious flag is gradually disappearing from the oceau,
either by destruction or the large war insurance, obliging the sale of our
ships to foreigners.
Yours, very truly and respectfully,
NESMITH &#38; SONS.

Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

&#38; eretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Letter from Hon. E. D. Morgan to the Secretary of the Navy regarding the defense of New
York Harbor.

54 AND 56 EXCHANGE PLACE,

New York, June 22, 1863.
	SIR:	If the Roanoke is not going to sea immediately, I greatly desire
that Admiral Paulding may be directed by the IN avy 1)epartineut with-
out delay to place her in a position to defend this harbor from attack
by a hostile ship or steamer. I shall go to the navy yard to get iiifor-
niation as to the condition of iron vessels there that can be used in case
of emergency.
Yours, very truly,
E.	D. MORGAN.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 23, 1863.

	Send the Tusearora oat again with orders to enter port of Boston.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy.
Acting Rear-Admiral S. P. LEE,
Commanding North Atlantic Blockading Squadron,
Old Point Comfort, Va

Page 301

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	301

[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 23, 1863.

	The following information should be given any vessel leaving the
Roads in continuation of their cruise for pirates:
	Ship isaac Webb captured the 20th instant, in latitude 400 35N.,
longitude 680 45 W., by bark Tacony. The same pirate captured the
brig Umpire the 14th instant, in latitude 370 37 N., longitude 69~ 57 W.
GIDEON WELLES,
AS~ecretary.
	Rear-Admiral S. P. LEE,
Newport News.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lee, U. S. Navy, commanding North Atlantic Blockading
Sq-~iadron, transmitting report of the commanding officer of U. S. S. Commodore Jones
regarding C. S. brig Clarence.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP MINNESOTA,
Off Newport News, Ya., June 23, 1863.
	SIR: I enclose herewith the original boarding report of the U. S. S.
Commodore Jones, cruising from 14th to 18th instant, inclusive, between
the capes of Virginia; also a report of her commanding officer, dated
Jane 19., received this morning, embracing two descriptions of the
Clarence, or Coquette, one derived from Captain West, of the schooner
Lady of the Lake, and the other from Win. Crooks, of the schooner King-
fisher, the latter expressing it as his firm conviction that she was still
owned by J. CFosbie, fruit dealer in Baltimore, for whom she was built,
and that she sailed by agreement to meet the Florida.
	The report includes also a statement of the qualities of the Commo-
dore Jones (ferryboat) as a sea boat.
I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, yours,
S.	P. LEE,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Corn dy. North Atlantic Blockading Squadron.
Hon. GiDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
[Enclosure.]

U.	S. S. COMMODORE JONES,
	Navy Yard, Nor	Jane 19, 1863.
	SIR: I enclose you the weekly return of vessels boarded aiid spoken
by this vessel in our five days cruise off the capes of Virginia. I also
give a description of tile schooner [brig] Clarence, as given by Captain
West, of the schooner Lady oJ the Lake. lie says he was master of the
Clarence two months since. She is hermaphrodite, brig rigged, with
very short bowsprit, ito royal, carries nothing above main topmast
staysail. End of main boom .j ast even with the tatiraii. Vessel very
straight, hardly any slicer, half elliptical stern. She was built for an
English gunboat and did have a white streak around her. The for-
ward house is forward of the foreni~ st; after house is just above the
rail with an iron railing around it. lie gives her Tonnage as 1(50 tons.
	Captain Win. Crooks, of the schooner Kingfisher, says that lie knows
the Clarence, formerly the Coquette, and has known her ever since she
was built; that she was built for J. Crosbie, fruit dealer in Baltimore,
and in his (Captain Crookss) opinion is still owned by him, and lie is
firmly convimiced that it was his intention to put her into the hands of
the Florida, amid that site sailed by agreement to meet her. According
to his account she is 250 tons. The two accounts diftbr here, but in
other points agree

Page 302

302	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	On our short cruise iu this vessel, I, as well as the other officers, was
convinced that she is, as at present fitted, not intended for outside
service except in smooth weather nd with sou~ port to run to. The
guards projecting so much outside the 5~Ofl5Ofl5 bring her up all a
standing in running against the sea, and, with the sea in the quarter, on
Tuesday she received some very hard hits which might have started
the guards.
	Since our arrival at the yard I have carefully examined her outside
and under the guards, and can riot find that anything has started, except
the cracking and splintering of some of the sponson planking forward,
and that to a trifling extent. This might have occurred on Sunday,
when I forced her against a N. E. swell in running in answer to sigual
guns from the [U. S. S.] AS1umpter and appearance of smoke in the direc-
tion in which she was steering. Captain Gregory, of the Western
World, says that it was curious to look at ns, bouncing like an india-
rubber ball from one sea to another, and throwing the water 50 to 60
yards ahead and on each side of her. In spite of our pitching on Sun-
day, and rolling and banging on Tuesday, we came out without leaking
a drop, and it may be prejudice more than anything else that gave the
officers, as well as myself, the opinion that she is unseaworthy. Since
my examination of her, in which examination I was assisted by Mr.
Hyde, the carpenter of the yard, I have a more favorable opinion of
her than I expressed to you yesterday m9rning, and could her guards
be eased by slanting them, or, perhaps better, as suggested by Mr. Hyde,
by putting slanting pieces of timber underneath, I should have no hesi-
tation in gping to any station in her during the summer months.
	The results of the examination of this morning show that the splin-
tering of the sponsons forward was caused by the anchors hitting them
while getting them up from under the bows, where we have been carry-
ing them while running inside.
	I should like to give her a further trial outside, f)rovided it meets
your approval, and I think that she could be of good service off Wil-
mington by cruising in the inside channel in the nighttime, where Cap-
tain Sands told me the blockade runners go in.
	1 had a fair chance of trying her speed yesterday, in coining from
Newport News to Norfolk, which distance was made in fifty-two min-
utes, and that in coming the longest route by the main ship channel.
Six and a half nautical miles of this was made in twenty-eight minutes,
without tide. Previously to this, we have made 29~ miles, by patent
log, in two hours and a half and that outside.
	I will write you further on Monday and give you the information
about repairs, etc. I have not time to finish it now in time for the mail.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOHN G. MiTCHELL,

Lieutenant-Commander, U. S. Navy.
	Acting Rear-Admiral S. P. LEE,
Commanding North Atlantic Blockading AS~quadron.


Report of the commandant of the navy yard, Philadelphia, of the return of three vessels
from the search for the C. 5. bark Tacony.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE, U. S. NAVY YARD,
Philadelphia, June 23, 1863.
	SIR: 1 have the honor to report the return of the three steamers sent
out from this place to search for the pirate bark Tacony. They hav

Page 303

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	303

cruised as directed and have boarded many vessels, but could obtaiu
no information of the vessel they were searching for. I enclose the
reports of the officers having charge of the differe.~it vessels, reports
No. 1, 2, and 3.
	I take great pleasure in saying the officers and men employed on this
service entered with alacrity and zeal upon the duty [they were] sud-
denly called upon to perform.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	K. STRIBLING,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington City.

[Enclosure 1.1

U.	S. S. TONAWANDA,
Off Navy Yard, Philadelphia, June 23, 1863.
	SIR: In obedience to your instructions of the 15th instant, I pro-
ceeded to sea in this vessel, passing the capes of the Delaware at 4:45
a. m. on the morning of the 17th.
	I stood along the coast 30 miles, when I made an easterly course to
latitude 390 20 N. and longitude 720 19 37 W., and at noon on the
18th, finding myself well in the Gulf Stream, I shaped my course for
Cape Hatteras.
	At noon on the 20th made Cape Hatteras light-house, distant about
5 miles. I changed my course and stood along the coast until I saw
Cape Henry light-house early on the morning of the 21st. After
sighting the light-house I stood out to sea until I found myself in the
Gulf Stream again, when I stood due north to the latitude of Cape
Henlopen; I then stood in for the land, and passed the capes at 1 p. m.
yesterday.
	During the cruise I have boarded, in all, twelve sailing vessels, spoke
three transports, and exchanged signals with three others. From none
of these vessels could I gain the least information of the freebooter.
During the whole cruise the weather was quite thick, and it was almost
impossible to see a vessel at any great distance.
	On the 20th instant, at 8 a. in., off Bodies Island, I was boarded by
an officer from the U. S. bark Young Rover, on a cruise.
	At 8:30 p. m. on the 20th, when 25 miles north of Bodies Island, I
was boarded by an officer from the U. Sb S. Suwanee, also on a cruise.
	On the 22d, when 45 miles east of Cape Henlopen, I was hove to by
a shot from the U. S. S. Monticello, was spoken by her, sent a pilot on
board, and stood in for Cape Henlopen in company.
	Believing I have fully carried out your instructions, and regretting that
we met with no better success,
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
HENRY C. TALLMAN,
Lieutenant, U. S. Navy.
	Commodore C. K. STRIBLING,
Commandant Philadelphia Navy Yard.
[Enclosure 2.]

STEAM TUG AMERICA,
Philadelphia, June 22, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to submit to you the following report of the
cruise of the tug America, which sailed from this port June 15, 1863:
After leaving the Capes of the Delaware the ship sailed S. S. E. abou

Page 304

304	OPERATIONS OF THE CRIJISERSUNION.

30 miles, thence to the eastward as far as 730 10 W. longitude, then
shaped our course to the southward and westward towar(1 Cape Hat-.
teras, and on our return have steere(l various coii~ses from N. W. to E. as
far east as 740 W. longitude, during which time I have spoken twelve
vessels and boarded eight. I have used my utmost endeavors to obtain
some information in reg rd to the freebooter, bnt have been unable to
do so. Thursday, June 18, in latitude 350 51 N., longitude 750 4 w.~
spoke the U. S. S. Young Rover, on a cruise; Fi~iday, June 19, spoke the
U. S. S. Dai Ching, on a cruise, these being the only Government
vessels seen during our cruise, and in compliance with your orders I
have returned to this port.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
M. II. JOHNSON,
Acting ]Jlaster, U. ~. Navy.
C.	K. STRIELING,
Gonlmandant Philadelphia Navy Yard.
[Enclosure 3.]

U.	S. CHARTERED STEAMER SUWANEE,
Off Philadelphia Nary Yard, June 23, 18G3.
	SIR:	I have carried out your written orders of June 15, with the fol-
lowing results:
Extracts from log.

	I have boarded in all nine vessels. I have spoken ten vessels. Of
the above iiumber three were vessels of war, viz, U. S. chartered steamer
Iionawanda (boarded), on Saturday, June 20, latitude 3(10 5, lo ugi-
tude 740 48; U. S. bark Amy, fi-om Bostoii five days (spoke), on Suii-
day, June 21, in latitude 38~ 55, longitude 750 12; no news; U. S.
yacht America (spoke), in latitude 370 55, longitude 740 48; no news.
On Friday, June 19, spoke ship Margarct Lindsey, from Calcutta to New
York via St. Thomas (British); left in St. rfholnas U. S. S. Vandcrbiit,
Admiral Wilkes, and Alabama in latitude 370 2, longitude 740 57;
reported off Cape Ilatteias, in longitude 750 10; was chased by a bark
(answering the description of the rThcony) for one hour; at5p. ni. bark
hauled on the wind in chase of a schooner to the westward. I have
gained no further information in regard to the whereabouts of the
Tacony.
I have the honor to be, most respectfully, your obedient servant,
G. W. CORNER,
Acting Ensign, Commanding.
Commodore C. K. STRIBLING,
Commanding Navy Yard, Philadclphia.


Letter from Hon. E. D. Morgan to the Secretary of the Navy, transmitting resolutions passed
by the New York Harbor and Frontier Defense Commission.

54 AND 56 EXChANGE PLACE,
Ncw York, June 23, 18G3.
	SIR:	I enclose copy of the resolutions which were passed by the
commissioners of New York Harbor and frontier defense at their meet-
ing on the 19th instant.
	I shall be pleased to receive in behalf of the commissioners such
information only as you can consistently give me, the object of th

Page 305

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	305

commissioners being the same as that of the Navy Departmentto be
in a condition to ward off any unexpected attack that may be mafle
upon the harbor of New York.
	We have thought it not impossible that some of the 0-overninent
ironclads might be spared for defending the harbor of New York. Our
people are uneasy at the boldness of the pirates, and they will not rest
much longer without efforts for more adequate protection for this
harbor.
	On the 22d instant I wrote you in relation to the frigate Roanoke
and hope to hear that she can now be spared for the defense of the port
of New York.
	I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant,
E.	D. MORGAN.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the lVavy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosure.]

Copy of re8o~utions passed at a meeting of the New York Harbor and Frontier Defense

Commission, June 19, 1863.

	1. Resolved, That Hon. E. D. Morgan be authorized to communicate
with the authorities at Washington and request that a competent
United States engineer officer may be placed upon duty at New York,
with whom the commission may consult as to the best mode of defense
of the harbor, and to whom the different plans now before the commis-
sion can be referred, and also that Senator Morgan obtain from the
Navy Department full information as to the number and character of
the vessels now in existence and being constructed for naval attack and
defense, how soon they will be ready for service, at what places such
vessels are being built, and whether any of them would be available
for the defense of New York in case of emergency. Senator Morgan
is also requested to communicate with the Ordnance Department of
the United States, with a view of ascertaining what effective guns arc
and can be placed in the fortifications about New York.
	2.	kesolved, That in case of any unexpected attack upon the harbor
of New York, Senator Morgan is hereby fully autl~orized,to the extent
of the means within the control of this commission, to take such meas-
ures as he shall deem necessary in the defense of the harbor.

STATE OF NEW YORK,
OFFICE OF TIlE ENOINEER IN CHIEF,
Albany, June 20, 1863.
I certify that the within is a true copy.
J.	VANDERPOEL,
Engineer in Chief, Secretary to Commission.


Letter from the Secretary of the Ilavy to Hon. E. D. Xorgan, in response to a request for
United States vessels for the protection of Now York Harbor.


NAvY DEPARTMENT, June 26, 1863.
	Siu: I have received your letter of the 22d instant, relative to the
Roanoke, also your letter of the 23d instant, enclosing a copy of a reso-
lution passed by the commissioners of New York Harbor and frontier
defense at their meeting on the 19th instant.
	N W RYOL II	2

Page 306

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
306

	In reply, I would st te that there are no ironclads at present avail-
able for service in New York Harbor. All now in condition for active
operations are needed on our blockading stations, which are threatened
from both without and within. The Roanoke is under orders to Hamp-
ton Roads, where her presence is deemed of importance.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, etc.
GIDEON WELLES,
&#38; cretary of the Navy.
	Hon. E. D. MORGAN,
New York.

(Telegram.]

CHARLESTOWN, MASS., June 23, 186310:10 a. m.
(IReceived at Washington 11:50 a. in.)
	Bark 12th Allen sailed yesterday on a fortnights cruise after the
fZaeony.
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


Letter from Hon. A. A. Low, president New York Chamber of Commerce, to the Secretary of
the Navy, regarding measures of protection for American merchant vessels.

CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK,
June 24, 1863,
	SIR: It has been proposed by several members of this chainber,in
view of the continued capture and destruction of American ships on
the ocean by vessels sailing under the rebel. flag, to memorialize your
Department to provide convoy twice a month, say on the -1st and 15th
of each month, front, this port to the British Channel, and from this
port to the latitude of 300 south of the equator, for all vessels bound
to the eastward of the Cape of Good Hope and to the westward of
Cape Horn and such as may be bound to the coast of Brazil.
	The chamber will not meet till Thursday next, but at that time I am
led to think action will be taken, and I venture to apprise you of the
probable proceedings in the hope that some valuable end may be gained
by the saving of time.
	It. may not be amiss to state that the war premium alone on American
vessels carrying valuable cargoes exceeds the whole freight in neutral
ships.
	I have the honor to remain, respectfully, your obedient servant,
A.	A. Low,
President.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
&#38; eretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


(Telegram.]

BOSTON, June 24, 18639:20 a. m.
	Will you allow private vessels, at their own expense, to go for the
pirate~ Will you give us guns from i~avy yard~
A.	HARDY &#38; Co.
Hon. G. WELLES

Page 307

OPERATIONS OP	THE CRUISERSUNION. 307

[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMF~T, June 24, 1863.

	Any vessels you may wish to send out for the special service of cap-
turing the privateers on the coast will be commanded by the United
States, and the commandant of the navy yard at Charlestown will fur-
nish you with arms, and you nominate to him such officers as you have
confidence in for this special duty. Communicate with Commodore
Montgomery.
GIDEON WELLES,
&#38; cretary of the Navy.
	Messrs. A. HARDY &#38; Co.,
Boston, Mass.



[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 24, 1863.

	Messrs. A. Hardy &#38; Co., of Boston, wish to send out some vessels
after the Tacony, and you are hereby authorized to furnish said vessels
with arms; and such officers as they recommend to serve on board you
will appoint according to the rules of the service for this special service
without pay.
GIDEON WELLES,
&#38; cretary of the Navy.
Commodore J. B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant Navy Yard, Boston, Mass.



[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 24, 1863.

	Charter more steamers and send them after the Tacony; all that can
be sent in forty-eight hours.
GIDEON WELLES,
ASecretary of the Navy.
	Commodore J. B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant of Navy Yard, Boston, Mass.



[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 24, 1863.

	Commodore Montgomery has been directed to send out more vessels,
an(1 A. Hardy &#38; Co. have been given authority to send out private
vessels.
GIDEON WELLES,
[&#38; eretary of the Navy.]
Governor ANDREW,
JOHN B. ALLEY,
ALEX. H. ItIcE,
Boston

Page 308

308	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

[Telegram.]

CHARLESTOWN,	MAss., June 24, 18632 :45jp.m.
(Received at Washington 3:40 p. in.)
	Telegram received. Search for steamers now in pro~rcss. U. S.
steamers flow quah and Iron Age will be dispatched within twenty-four
hours, unless otherwise ordered.
J.	B. MoNTGoMEnY,
Commandant.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Nary.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 24, 1863.
	The Tacony burned, on 22d instant, six schooners and three ships, in
latitnde 4P 3, longltn(ic 69~ 15.
	if the Tuscaro, a has not sailed, give her this information.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Rear.Adniiiral S. P. LEE,
Commanding North Atlantic Blockading Squadrrnt,
Hampton Roads, Va.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 24,1863.
	Send the Saa Jacinto and any other available vessels in search of
the Tacony. This pirate is rei)orte(1 to have burned six vessels on the
22d instant, in latitude 410 03, longitude 69~ 15.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Rear-Admiral HIRAM PAULDINO-,
Commandant Navy Yard, New York.


[Telegram.]

BROOKLYN, June 24, 1863.
(Received at Washington 4:05 p. in.)
	I~eceived your telegram. 171 ave sent the San Jacinto after the Tacony.
Will send such other vessels as I can get.
WM. RADFORD,
For Commandant.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 24, 1863.
	Send the steamers lately arrived immediately after the Tacony. On
22d instant she was in latitude 4j0 3~ longitude 690 15.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Commodore C. K. SmIELING,
Commandant of Navy Yard, Philadelphia

Page 309

OPERATIONS OF	TIlE CRUISERSUNION. 309
[Telegram.]

NAVY 13EPARTME~T, June 24, 1863.
	If you can charter the steamship Ericsson and get her off in forty-
eight hours, filled with coal, do so. as she can stay at sea a month if
Pill of coal.
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
	Rear-Admiral PAULDING-,
New York Navy Yard.


[Tele.~rarn.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 24, 1863.
	Can not the Shenandoah be sent off to the eastward0
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.]
	Commodore C. K. STRIBLING,
Commandant Philadelphia Navy Yard.


[Telegram.]
I Ju
NEWPORT, R. ., ne 25, 1863.
(Received at Washington 8:35 a. in.)
	A rebel pirate, snpposed to l)e tile Tacony, destroyed several fishing
vessels outside our harbor yester(lay. Will you not give us an armed
steainerl Our harbor is one of the most important of the coast.
WM. II. CRANSTON,
Mayor.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 25, 1863.
	You may order some of the second-class midshipmen from the Marion
to the chartered steamers. Get the Marion off as early as possible.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Rear-Admiral hIRAM PAULDING,
Commandant Navy Yard, New York


[Telegram.]

BROOKLYN NAVY	YARD, June 25, 186310:40 a. rn.
(Received at Washington 1 20 p. in.)
	Yesterday, on receipt of Departments order for San Jacinto, I sent
it munediately, but the tug failed to overtake her.

H.	PAULDING,
Commandant.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy

Page 310

310	OPERATIONS OF THE CL~UISERSUNION.

Instructions of the commandant navy yard, Boston, to Lieutenant-Commander Stone, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. S. Iron Age, relative to cruise in search of the C. S. bark
Taconv.

BOSTON NAVY YXRD, June 25, 1863.
	Sin: You will proceed to sea with the steamer Iron Age, under your
command, using the utmost possible dispatch, to search for the priva-
teer Tacony.
	From Boston light you will run within 15 or 20 miles of Cape Ann,
and sweep that line of coast to Cape Sable, from thence, passing
through the intervening fishing grounds of Le Have, Sable Island, and
Querean Banks [Banquerean], proceed to the Banks of Newfoundland
and thoroughly search their southern section, the usual resort of our
fishing vessels. You will continue to cruise in that vicinity, extending
your observations along the lower edge of the Banks to within 15 or 20
miles of Cape Race (the route takeu by our steamers in returning from
Liverpool) until the reduction of your supply of coal shall render it
necessary for you to return to this port.
	You will speak and communicate with all vessels you may meet, and
act upon any reliable information you may obtain from them. Should
yon meet the Tacon~i, you will capture her and bring her to this port
or the most convenient port in the United States.
	Previous to your sailing, you will receipt for, or cause the proper
officers to receipt for, the various stores furnished your vessel.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
	LieutenaAt-Commander E. E. STONE,
Commanding U. ~. S. Iron Age, Navy Yard, Boston.

Instructions of the commandant navy yard, Boston, to Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Devens,
commanding U. S. S. Howquah, relative to cruise in search of the C. S. bark Tacony.

BOSTON NAVY YARD, June 25, 1863.

	SIR: You will assume command of the U. S. S. Jfowquah and pro-
ceed to sea, using the utmost dispatch, to search for the privateer
Tacony.
	From Boston light pass to the southward, as near as practicable, to
the Georges Shoals, thence over the Le Have Banks, passing through
the intermediate fishing grounds to the Banks of Newfoundland, and
thoroughly search its southern section, the usual resort of our fishing
vessels. You will continue to cruise in that vicinity, extending your
observation along the southern edge of the Banks to within 15 or 20
miles of Cape Rac&#38; (the route takeir by our steamers in returning from
Liverpool) until the reduction of your coal renders it necessary to
return to this port.
	You will speak and communicate with every vessel you meet, and
take advantage of any information you may receive likely to lead to
the capture of the Tacony. Should you fall in with her, you will capture
and bring her to this or the most convenient port in the United States~
	Previous to sailing, call at the different offices and sign receipts for
articles furnished you.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant ED. F. DEVENS,
Commanding U. S. S. Hbwquah, Navy Yard, Boston

Page 311

OPERATIONS OP THE C RIIISERSUNION.	311

Instructions of the commandant navy yard, Boston, te Acting Master Baich, U. S Navy, com-
manding steamer Admiral Du Pont, relative to &#38; uise in search of the C. S. bark Tacony.

BOSTON NAVY YAI~D, June 25, 1863.
	SIR: You will proceed to sea with the steamer Admiral Du Pont,
using the utmost possible dispatch, to search for the privateer Tacony.
The captain of the Admiral Du Pont will be in all respects subject to
your orders.
	From Boston light run outside to the edge of the Gulf Stream; from
thence visit the fishing grounds on or about Georges Shoals, and con-
tinne to cruise between Georges and Nantucket shoals until required
by the consumption of coal to return to this port. You will speak and
communicate with all vessels you meet, and take advantage of any reli-
able information you may receive from them likely to lead to the cap-
ture of the Tacony. Should you fall in with her, you will capture and
bring her to this or the most convenient port in the United States.
	Previous to sailing, you will call at the different offices and sign
receipts for the articles furnished you.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTc~OMERY,

Commandant.
	Acting Master J. W. BALd, U. S. Navy,
Boston, Mass.

[Telegram.]

PHILADELPHIA, June 25, 1863.
(Received at Washington 1:30 p. in.)
	SIR: The James Adger has arrived. Her boiler will not be ready for
six weeks. Shall I send her to looE out for the Theony? Shall I send
the prisoners in her to be landed at Fort Lafayette or send them from
here by land~i
	Respectfully, etc.,	~. K. STRIBLING,
	Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to commandant navy yard, Philadelphia, to send U. S. S.

James Adger in search of the C. S. bark Tacony.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 25, 1863.
	Send the prisoners brought by the James Adger to Fort Lafayette by
land, and send that vessel out at once after the Tacony. She was seen
southeast of Newport yesterday. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.
	Commodore C. K. STRIBLING,
Commandant Navy Yard, Philadelphia.


Report of the commandant of the navy yard, Philadelphia, regarding the search for the C. S.
bark Tacony.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE, U. S. NAVY YARD,
Philadelphia, June 25, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that the ~Saratqqa went into com-
mission yesterday, and will be ready for service on Saturday if a medi-
cal officer can be had

Page 312

312	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	The $henandoah left the navy yard yesterday afternoon Thr the inag-
azine, and left there to-day, in obedience to orders, to go to Boston and
search for the pirate Tacony on the way, eveii if t should be more than
the four days trial, if there should be any hope of capturing her.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	K. STRIBLING-,

Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
AS~eeretary of the Navy, Washington City.


Report of the commandant of the navy yard, Philadelphia, of the sailing of the steamer
America in search of the C. S. bark Tacony.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE, U. S. NAVY YARD,
Philadelphia, June 25, 1863.
	SIR: I have dispatched the steamer America in pursuit of the Tacony.
This is the only steamer here fit for this service to be had.
	I have ordered to her Acting Masters Mate William Young, recently
appointed and waiting orders Acting Third Assistant Engineer
Charles W. Kenyon, arrived here in the (Thlena and not detached froiii
her by the Department; Acting Third Assistant Engineer William F.
Warburton, belonging to the Keystone State.
	The America is in charge of Mr. Johnson, acting master of the
Princeton.
	Only Mr. Chambers, mate, and Mr. Messick, her engineer, were will-
ing to go iA the steamer on this service, which one would suppose any
seafaring person would be anxious to engage in.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	K. STRIBLING,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Nary, Washington City.

~eport of Acting Rear.Admiral Lee, U. S. Navy, commanding North Atlantic Blockading
Squadron, regarding the movements of the U. S. steamers Tuscarora and Jasmine.

U. S. FLAGSHIP MINNESOTA,
Off Newport News, Va., June 25, 1863.
	SIR: The U. S. S. Tuscarora proceeded to sea at 4:35 yesterday
afternoon to cruise for privateers and go to Boston when her coal is
exhausted. The U. S. tug Jasmine, which came into the [Hampton]
Roads day before yesterday for coal, left at 5 oclock yesterday after-
noon, bound for the Gulf.
I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, yours,
S.	P. LEE,
Act. Rear-Admiral, Comdg. North Atlantic Blockading Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Telegram.]

CHARLESTOWN, MASS., June 25, 18637: 25p. m.
(Received at Washington 8:30 p. m.~
	The captain of one of the fishing vessels destroyed off Chathamn Oil
Monday last informed me that the commander of the privateer Tacon

Page 313

313
OPERATIONS OF TUE CRUISERSUNION.
said that he should join the Florida in one week from that time, from
which we infer that he can not be very far distant from our coast or
that of the British provinces. The Iron Age an~ How quah will sail
this evening and the chartered steamer Admiral 1)u Pont at 9 oclock
in the morning.	~-. B. MONTGOMERY,
	Commandant.
Hon. G. WELLES.


Report of Lieutenant Kane, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. yacht America, of the retnrn of
that vessel from a search for the C. S. bark Tacony.

U. S. YACuT AMERICA,
New York Harbor, June 2~, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the return of the U. S. schooner
yacht America to this port, after an nnsuccessful search for the privateer
Tacony and others.
	In obedience to your orders, we left the anchorage off the navy yard
ou the afternoon of June 15, and, after discharging our pilot at the
light-ship, shaped onr course to the southward and westward. We
have during the cruise sighted the coasts of New Jersey, I)elaware,
and Virginia, and have overhauled and boarded all square-rigged ves-
sels we have met with and spoken all frre and afters, but have hot
had the good fortune to learn anything of the whereabouts of the
privateers.
	We have been very unfortunate in regard to weather. For the first
five days of the cruise we encountered stormy, wet, foggy [weather]
and easterly winds, and the remaining days we have met with light
southerly airs and calms. On the afternoon of the third day out the
shackle of the jib stay carried away at the cutwater, and, as there was
quite a heavy sea running at the time, with a strong N. B. wind, I had
some fears for our foremast (the jib stay being its only fore-and-aft
support), having no heavy tackles or ropes in the ship. ~eenred the
stay with a tackle to the stein. The next day our bobstay went, which
we also secured temporarily.
	Being in this crippled condition, and fearing that we might encounter
some more heavy weather, 1 deemed it not prudent to venture far to
the eastward, so, after gaining the latitude of the capes of the Chesa-
peake, we turned our heads to the northward, stretching more out to
the eastward than on our downward run.
	Enclosed you will find ( list of the vessels boarded and spoken during
the cruise.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
Tiwo. F. KANE,
Lieutenant, Commanding.
	Rear-Admiral H. PAULDING,
Commandant Navy Yard [New York].


[Te1e~ am.]

BROOKLYN, June 25, 1863.
(Received at Washington S : 3~) p. in.)
	Dispatch about Fahkee, secon(l-class midshipmen, and to Admiral
Dahlgren, received. The steamer Fri es~on w~as not coaled, and can iot
be here before 2 p. nm. to morrow. The coaling of chartered steamer
will make delay. The Department does [notj name number of stea

Page 314

314	OPERATIONB O~ THE CRUISERSUNION.

and sail ships, and if not instructed I will send as many as I have men
for, 20 men in each. The Baltic and Atlantic can not be had on satis-
factory terms, and I have declined them.
~n. PAULPING,
Commandant.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


Petition from merchants of Boston, Mass., regarding protection for the shipping interests of
New England.

BOSTON, June 25, 1863.
	The undersigned merchants of Boston, representing in part the
great fishing interests of New England, would call the attention of the
Government to the fact that there are a great number of vessels visit-
ing the Bay [Gulf] of St. Lawrence duriiig the season from the first of
July to the last of November in the i)rosecutiou of the mackerel fish-
eries, and are without sufficient and proper protection against any
hostile power.
	Believing that sailing vessels taken from the merchant service and
properly armed could, with a comparatively small expense, be placed
in those waters for the protection of the fishing interest, would respect-
fully and earnestly request the attention of the Government to the
matter, and hope that it may meet with a prompt and hearty response.
	We subscribe ourselves, most respectfully, your obedient servants,
It. B. FORBES,
WILLIAM PERKINS,
HOWES &#38; (JROWELL,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	[And 28 others.]
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 27, 1863.
	In reference to the petition of merchants of Boston, dated June 25,
headed by yourself, you are authorized, in con~junction with George B.
Upton and A. A. Frazar, to charter and fit out for a three months
cruise two sailing vessels to protect the fisheries. Commodore Mont-
gomery will arm and victual them, and Goverumemit will pay the crews
and officers naval rates. Show this to all concerned and nominate the
officers to the commodore. Ship the itmen for a three mouths cruise,
special service.
	GIDEON WELLES,
	R. B. FORBES, Boston.	[Secretary of the Navy.J

[Telegram.]

PHiLADELPITIA, June 26, 1863.
(Received at Washington 10 a. in.)
	SIR:	The Shenandoah, James Adger, and America are off in pursuit of
the Tacony. Only the James Adger had the information as to the posi-
tion of the Tacony on the 24th.
Respectfully,
C.	K. STRIBLING,
(Jommandant.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES, Secretary Navy

Page 315

OPPRATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	315

Report of Lieutenant-Commander Meade, U. S. Navy, commanding chartered steamer United
States, of cruise in search of the C. S. bark Tacony.

U.	S. S. UNJTE~ STATES,
Off New York, June 26, 1863.
	ABMIRAL:	In obedience to your order of the 15th instant, I took
charge of the chartered steamer United States, received on board guns,
stoves, and men, and proceeded to sea on the 16th instant, boarding aiid
overhauling all vessels ~ hich lay Ia my track to the eastward. On the
19th, in latitude 41~ N., longitude 670 10 W., I fell in with and seized,
on suspicion of having run the blockade, the British hermaphrodite
brig Isabella Thompson, of Halifax, with a cargo consisting of 486
barrels of turpentine and 81 bales of cotton. Acting Ensign II. F.
NI offat, with 4 incn, was placed iii charge, with orders to proceed to the
port of New York and there deliver up the vessel, cargo, and papers to
the prize marshal. I then continued may course to the eastward.
	Qit the 20th, having reached the latitude 410 48 N., longitude 630 50
W., and finding that II was burning considerable coal and yet not mnak-
big munch headway against the strong easterly gale themi prevailing, I
deemed it advisable to bear up to the southward, which I accordingly
did and on the 22d reached the southern edge of the Gulf Stream in
the track of the West India traders, where I boarded a number of ves-
sels, but I learned nothing of the privateer Tacony.
	On the 24th I shaped a course for this l)ort and reached here to-day.
During this cruise of nine days, although the greater portion of the
time in rough weather, I have boarded and overhauled 27 vessels. In
fact, not a sail raised has been allowed to pass without an examination
by the boarding officer. I enclose herewith a list of the vessels met
with.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
RIChARD W. MEADE,
Lieutenant- Commander, U. S. Navy.
	Rear.Admiral II. PAULDING, U. S. Navy,

Commandant Navy Yard, New York.


[TelegramI

CHARLESTOWN, MASS., June 26, 18639:40 a. m.
(Received at Washington 12:50 p. in.)
	The steamer Cherokee has returned from a cruise in search of the
privateer Taeommy. She will be recoaled an(l sent on another cruise
unless Qtherwise directed.
J.	B. MONTc~OMERY,
[Commandant.]
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy.


[Telcgram.l

BOSTON, June 26, 18634:20 p. m.
(Received at Washington 4:30 p. in.)
	Iron screw steamers Mississippi and Merrim e are in New York unem-
ployed. They are 2,000 tons each, fast, wide, and well adapted to carr

Page 316

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
316

a heavy battery. Ought they not to be fitted and (lispatched immedi-
ately to capture Confederate pirates l
	In behalf of harbor defense committee of BoaNi of Trade:
B.	S. TOBEY,
Chairman.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
iS~ecretary Navy.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 26, 1863.
	Send the Dai Cuing after the Tacony when repairs to engines are
completed. The house can not be 1)nt oti ~tt present.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Acting Pear-A dmiral LEE,
Comiiwnaing Nor/h Atlantic Bloekadinq Squadron,
Old Point Comfort, Va.


[Telegram.]

NAVY YiUID, BROOKLYN, June 26, 18636 p. m.
	Dispatch receive(l. Steamer cii artere(i. Have information just now
that Taeoi~y was seen yester(lay 11 a. in., off No Mans Land. The
steamer honduras has sailed through the sound in pursuit. United
States caine in this moriiiii~. has been purchased. Will sail as soon
as coaled to-morrow, without change of crew. A sail ship will also
leave in the morning. We are iu want of men.
H.	PAULDINcf,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.

Instructions of the commandant navy ya .d, boston, to Lieutenant-Commander Grafton, U. 5,
Navy, commanding U. S. S. Cherokee, relative to cruise in soarch of the C. S. bark Tacony.
BOSTON NAVY YARD, June 26, 18(13.
	Sin: You will assume command of the steamer Cherokee and proceed
to sea, using the utmost i)OS5iblC dispatch, to search for the privateer
Tacony.
	From Boston light you will cruise to the eastward, visitin~ the fish-
eries to the southward of Nova Scotia as far as Banquerean Bank, and
cruise in that vicinity until reqnired by the consumption of coLA to
return to this port.
	You will speak and communicate with all vessels you meet, and take
advantage of any reliable information you may receive from them likely
to lead to the capture of the Tacony. Should you fall in with her, you
will capture and bring her to this or the most convenient port in the
United States.
	Previous to sailing, sign receipts for all articles furnished you.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
	Lieutenant Commander EDWARD C. GRAFTON,
Commanding U. S. S. Cherokee, Navy Yard, Boston

Page 317

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	317

Instructions of the commandant navy yard, Boston, to Acting Master flicks, U. S. Navy, ordered
to command chartered steamer George Shattuck in the search for the C. S bark Tacony.

BOSTON NAVY YARD, June 26, 1863.

	SIR: You will proceed to sea with the steamer George Shattuck, using
the utmost possible dispatch, to search for the privateer Tacony. The
captain of the George AS~hattuck will be in all respects subject to your
orders.
	You will cruise from Boston Bay to Eastport, off and on shore, until
required by the consumption of coal to return to this port. You will
speak and communicate with all vessels you meet, and take advantage
of any reliable information you may receive from them likely to lead
to the capture of the Tacony. Should you fall in with her you will cap-
tuic and bring her to this or the most convenient port in the United
States.
	Previous to sailing, call at the different offices and sign receipts for
articles furnished you.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGVOMERY,
Commandant.
	Acting Master JOHN W. DIOKS,
U.	~. Receiving Ship Ohio, Boston, Mass.



Instructions of the commandant navy yard, New York, to Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Greg.
ory, U. S. Navy, commanding chartered steamer Honduras, relative to cruise in search of
the C. S. bark Tacony.


NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, June 26, 1863.
	SIR: Proceed to sea with the chartered steamer flonduras, under
your command, and cruise for the bark Tacony and any other vessels
preyiiig upon our commerce. Examine all vessels you uiay fall in with,
and be governed by the information you may obtain in shaping your
course. The Tacony when last heard from was in the vicinity of the
South Shoals.
	Unless you have good and sufficient cause to do otherwise, keel) far
enongh inshore to sight all the prominent points of land, steering
castwardly until you reach the latitude of 42~ N. and longitude of 62~
W.	It is desirable that you should move with low steam at night,
traveling as you deem best with the object of speaking vessels in your
route. Approach the N antucket and South shoals, having regard
for the safety of your vessel and at the same time the protection of our
commerce. Returning, keel) in nearly tIme same track. Other vessels
that I shall send to sea will cruise to the southward of you.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
II.	PAULDINQ
Commandant.
	Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Fil. M.] GRu~ouv,
Commanding Chartered Steamer Honduras

Page 318

318	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of the commandant of the navy yard, Philadelphia, transmitting copies of orders to
commanders of vessels ordered to proceed in search of the C. S. bark Tacony.
COMMANDANTS OFFICE U
~.	NAVY YARD
Philadelphia, June 27, 1863.
	SIR:	I enclose herewith copies of orders given to commanders of
vessels sent in pursuit of the Tacony.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	K. STRIJILING,

Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosures.]

COMMANDANTS OFFICE, U. S. NAVY YARD,
Philadelphia, June 25, 1863.
	SIR:	Send your prisoners on board the Princeton and get underway
as soon as possible and go in pursuit of the Tacony. She was seen
yesterday southeast of Newport. Cruise for her as long as your coal will
last, taking care to return here before it is entirely expended, unless
you should gaiii such information as to render it proper to secure coal
elsewhere and continue the pursuit.
	You will, of course, not press your vessel except when in chase.
Economize the use of your coal as much as possible.
Wishing you every success in the pursuit of this freebooter,
Respectfully, etc., your obedient servant,
C.	K. STRIBLING,
Commandant.
Commander THOMAS H. PATTERSON,
Commanding U. S. &#38; James Adger, Navy Yard, Philadelphia.


COMMANDANTS OFFICE, U. S. NAVY YARD,
Philadelphia, June 21, 1863.
	SIR:	You will proceed [to] sea with as little delay as possible to look
after the Tacony. On the 22d she was in latitude 41~ 3, longitude
690 15.
	About Nantucket you can perhaps gain information about her, and
will be governed accordingly. A f&#38; w days ou your trial trip will be
well spen t if you succeed in capturing her.
T am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	K. STRIBLINO-.
Commandant.
Captain DANL. B. IRIDGELY,
Commanding U. S. S. Shenandoah, Navy Yard, Philadelphia.


COMMANDANTS OFFICE, U. S. NAVY YARD,
Philadelphia, June 25, 1863.
	SIR:	You will proceed in the America to look out for the pirate
Tacony. Shape your course from the I)elaware to the light-ship off the
South Shoal of Nantucket. If you gain ito information of the pirate
there, cluise between thP light-boat, Georges Bank, and Portsmouth,
N. II., until it is time to return to this place before your coal is consumed

Page 319

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	319


	You will be vigilant in the performance of this duty and have your
men well exercised and prepared for any service, as well as the special
duty assigned you.
IL am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	K. STRIBLINQ

	Commandant.
	Acting Master JOHNSON,
U.	S. Receiving Ship Princeton, Philadelphia.



Order from the commandant navy yard, Boston, to Acting Master Welsh, to assume temporary
command of chartered schooner Thomas Woodward and cruise in search of the C. S. bark
Tacony.

BOSTON NAvY YARD, June 27, 1863.
	SIR:	You are ht~reby appointed an acting master, without pay, in the
Navy of the United States, to command the schooner Thomas Wood-
ward during her cruise for the privateer Tacony. Should you meet the
Tacony or any other rebel privateer, you will capture her and bring
her to this port. On your return to this port you will report to me and
your appointment will cease.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,

	Commandant.-
Acting Master JOHN H. WELSH, U. S. Navy,
Comdg.Schooner Thomas Woodward, Navy Yard, Boston.



Order of the commandant navy yard, New York, to Acting Master Clark, to assume temporary
command of chartered bark D. Colden Murray and cruise in search of the C. S. bark
Tacony.

NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, June 27, 1863.

	SIR:	Proceed to sea with the chartered bark D. Colden Murray, under
your command. Stretch off toward Montauk, and having sighted the
land cross the Gnlf Stream aud sail to the eastward. on the outer edge,
examining careftilly all the vessels you may fall in with. Obtain what
information you can of the piratical bark Tacony or other vessels that
interrupt our commerce, and deviate from these instructions as far as it
may be necessary to obtain the object in view. Communicate with the
fishermen on the Banks aud return oti the inside of the Gnlf Stream.
Itespeetfully, your obedient servant,
II.	PAULDING,
	Commandant.
	Acting Master W. B. CLARK,
Commanding Bark D. Colden Murray.



Instructions of the commandant navy yard, New York, to Lieutenant-Commander Mifler, U. S.
Navy, commanding chartered steamer Ericsson, relative to cruise in search of the C. S. bark
Tacony.

NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, June 27, 1863.
	SIR:	Proceed to sea in the chartered steamer Ericsson, under your
command, and cruise for the piratical bark Tacony and other vessels
that may have interfered with our commerce. Stretch off to a conve

Page 320

320	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.

icut distance from the coast and continue to the eastward until you
arrive in the longitude of IJalifax. Examine all sails you may meet,
and be governed by the information you may obtain.
Itespeetfully, your obedient servant,
II. PAULDING,
Commandant.
	Lieutenant-Commander Jos. N. MILLER,
Commanding U. S. Chartered Steamer Ericsson.


Instructions of the commandant navy yard, New York, to Commander Nicholson, U. S. Navy,
commanding chartered steamer Governor Buckingham, relative to cruise in search of the
C. S. bark Tacony.
NAVY YARD, NEW YoRK, June 27, 1863.

	SIR: You will take command of the chartered steamer Governor Back-
ingham and proceed to sea in her in search of the piratical bark Tacony
or any other vessels interrupting our commerce.
	You will use your own discretion as to your cruising ground. Eiiclosed
is an extract from orders which have becir issued to other vessels.
Itespeettully, youi obedient servant,
	II.	PAULDING,
Per W. T~ADFORD,

Commander.
Commander J. NY. A. NICHoLsON,
Commanding Chartered Steamer Governor Buckingham.


Letter from Messrs. Sturges, Clearman &#38; Co. to the Secretary of the Navy relative to depre

dations committed by the C. S. bark Tacony.

NEW YORK, June 27, 1863.
	SIR: We have to report to you that the bark Goodspced, of New
York, belonging to ourselves and friends, of Connecticut, was captured
and burned by the pirate Tacony on Sunday last.
	We learn front Captain Dunton, of the bark, who has arrived at this
port, the probability is the pirates will change to another vessel, as the
boarding officer examined the log book of the Goodspced to ascertain her
sailing qualities with that object. If they can capture a steamer they
will change to her, as they have an engineer with them.
	Captain Dunton informs us that ott the day previous to his capture he
J)assed within 4 miles of a United States steam gunboat, which made no
effort to speak him or give him information of privateers bei g on the
coast. We learn the ship Byzantium, also burned, was spoken on that
day by steamer B!aclcstonc, and, we judge,was the same seen by Captaiit
Dunton. The weather was somewhat haxy, bat she was seen clearly and
distinctly by the officers of oar vessel, which ought to have been seen
with equal facility from the gunboat. Had the gunboat spoken amid
imparted to the master of the Goodspecd informuation titat privateers
were on the coast, it is possible he might have changed Itis course and
avoided capture and destruction. At all events, he would not have run
his vessel blindly into danger. If our Navy can not aftord the com-
merce of the country the protection which is its due, we think its offi-
cers, while on the high seas, might at least put themselves sommit~what
out of their way to comihunicate information important to its safety

Page 321

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	321

	The commander of the Tacony desired Captaiu Durtton to report that
be had captured four vessels (two of which [he] boi~ded and the others
burned) iu sight of a United States guuboat.
Very respectfully, your obedient servants,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	STURGES, CLEARMAN &#38; Co.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington City.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 27, 1863.

	The Passaic, ironclad, remains in New York Harbor, and is nearly iu
condition for service. The services of the Roanoke are important at an
important point.
GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary.
	Hon. E. D. MORGAN,
New York City.


Report of the commandant navy yard, Boston, regarding vessels dispatched in pursuit of the
C. S. bark Tacony.

U.	S. NAVY YARD, COMMANDANTS OFFICE,
Boston, June 27, 1863.
	SIR: In obedience to your order of the 24th instant, I have chartered
the steamers Admiral Du Pont and George Shattuck and sent them in
pursuit of the privateer Tacony. I have also sent the U. S. steamers
Iron Age and llowquah, and the prize steamer Cherokee, which returned
for coal, has been coaled and dispatched on the same duty.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
	J. B. MONTGOMERY,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commandant.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


[Telegram.]

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, June 27, 1863.
(Received at Washington 1:05 p. in.)
	Large American ship seen last night, burned to waters edge,near
Yarmouth. Supposed fired by rebel pirate Tacony, as informant saw
large lead.colored steamer this morning in viciulty.
M. JAcKsON,
U.	S. Consul.
	Hon. W. H. SEWARD,
Secretary State.


[Telegram.]

NEW YORK, June 27, 1863.
(Received at Washington 5 p. in.)
	SIR: I learn from General Wool that so large a share of the troops
garrisoning in the fortifications of this harbor have been forwarded to
N W R-VOL II 2

Page 322

322	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

the seat of war that they can not be relied on to prevent the approach
of armed vessels. I mnst therefore ask that the IZoanoke be left in our
harbor until the city can devise other means of securing its safety from
a naval attack, which its importance to the nation imperiously demands.
Please so instruct Admiral Paulding. GEORGE OPDYKE,

Mayor.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


[Tdegram.]

NEW YORK, [June 27, 1863.]
(Received at Washington 5:10 p. in.)
	SIR:	The ironclad steamer Roanoke ought not to be taken from this
great emporium from which you are supplied with money and almost
everything to carry on the war against the rebels. The militia, as well
as all the troops except about 700, are ordered elsewhere. To take the
Roanoke from this city at the present moment will produce a very great
excitement from all classes, friends as well as foes.
JOHN E. WOOL,
Major- General.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy.



Report of U. S. collector of customs, Portland, Me., of the cutting out of the U. S. revenue
cutter Caleb Cushing by the C. S. schooner Archer, in Portland Harbor, Me., and capture of
Lieutenant Read, C. S. ~Tavy, and party, June 27, 1863.

CUSTOM-HOUSE, COLLECTORS OFFICE,
Portland [Me.], June 27, 1863.
	SIR:	I sent you three telegrams to-day, giving you in brief the lead-
ing facts respecting the cutting out of the revenue cutter Caleb Gushing,
and now proceed, according to your orders by telegraph, to report the
facts in detail for farther instructions. From a private and individual
examination of several of the crew of the cutter, who were on board, I
gather these facts, in which the testimony of all agreed:
	It appears that the commanding 6fficer of the bark Tacony, fearing
her capture, made a prize of the schooner Archer, as before reported,
and removed his brass howitzer, arms, etc., on board of her, and then
burned the Tacony. The Archer then bore up for the coast of Maine to
escape capture, and came into our harbor on Friday, the 26th instant,
at 6 p. in., passing our forts as a fisherman. Her object in visiting this
port was to destroy the two gunboats building here and such other
shipping as they could conveniently fire at our wharves.
	It is supposed that the second officer came on shore and learned of
the death of Captain Clarke, of the cutter, who dicd that day of a
disease of the heart.
	There being but little wind to fan the flames when set, they changed
their original plan and concluded to cut out the cutter.
	At about 1 oclock a. in., after the moon had set, the watch on deck,
hearing boats approaching, at once called Lieutenant Davenport, but,
as the watch returned on deck, he found armed men pouring over each
side of the cutter, variously estimated at from 25 to 40 men. They
instantly seized the watch on deck, presented rovolvers to their heads

Page 323

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNiON.	323

and threatened to shoot them if they spoke or made any noise. The
watch were put in irons and sent below, arid, the main hatch being open,
a part of the attacking party rushed below arid threateried to shoot the
men asleep in their hammocks or just awaking, if they spoke. The men
below were theu ironed and ordered not to look on deck at the peril of
their lives. Four men seized Lieutenant Davenport as lie attempted to
come out of the cabin at the call of the watch and bore him below in
the cabin and ironed hini, ordering him to keep quiet as a puisoner.
	They then loosed her sails, hove up her anchor, and made sail ou her;
but as the wind was. light, put two boats ahead with their own men to
tow her. They towed her out of the northern passage to our harbor
known as ilusseys Sound (which I regret to say is entirely unprotected
by any fortification or battery), and at daylight she was seen about 5
miles off standing out to sea.
	I was advised at my house at ten minutes. past 8 a. in. that the cut-
ter had gone to sea, and regret that my suspicions, as 1 now think
unjustly, fell upon First Lieutenant Davenport as the party who had
run oft with her.
	I at once caine to the conclusion that this was an exigency when I
ought not to wait for orders from you, but assume the responsibility of
her recapture for the Government. I at once sent messengers to Fort
Preblc fr guns and men of the Seventeenth Regulars, to be ready for
a steamer that I would have at the port wharf: also sent a messenger
to Camp Lincoln, to Colonel Mason, of the Seventh Maine Volunteers,
for men. To both of these requests the responses were promptly made,
and in less than one hour Colonel Mason had all the men at camp,
including his band, in the city and on board of steamers. I at once
chartered the Forest City, a 700-ton side-wheel steamer of the Boston
Line, and also the small steamer Casco as a tramisport to take the guns
and men from Fort Preble wharf, the steamer Forest City drawing too
much water to lie at it. I also chartered a steam-tug propeller and sent
her to the upper bridge in our harbor to take on board the men of time
Seventh, and as evidence of the- prompt response to my calls I would
state that in fifty minutes after I had learned of the capture of the
cutter three steamers had left the wharf to overhaul her. Finding
that at the suggestion of the mayor the steamer Chesapeake (propeller),
of the New York Line, was getting up steam, I put Colonel Mason and
the largest portion of his command on board of her, she having obtained
two brass 6-pounders from the State am~senal. She also had about 50
citizen volunteers of all ages and colors, who armed themselves and
repaired on board.
	I arranged with each boat a series of signals, to be given from the
Marine Observatory on Munjoy Hill, to point out the course for each
steamer to take. The Forest City and tug went out first, and were soon
followed by the Chesapeake, it taking her longer to get up steam.
	The cutter was about 10 miles off, standing to westward, and beating
out of Casco Bay. The Forest C~ity first overhauled the cutter, when
without heaving to, she opened on the steamer with her 32-pound gun,
firmng four round shot at her, but without hitting her. She (the
steamer) hove to then for the Chesapeake, and, after conferring together,
it was deemed best for tIme Chesapeake, as she was a propeller and had
taken [on] board about 50 bales of cotton for barricades, to run the
cutter down. She accordingly put on all steam and stood for her,
being then something over I mile off. The schooner tacked and gave
the Chesapeake three or four shots, the last being shrapnel, part of
which passed over the steamer

Page 324

324	OPERATLON~ OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	Seeing three steamers bearing down for her, the officer in coifimand
went into the cabin and informed Lieutenant D~venport that he and
his mcii must leave the vessel, as they had determined to abandon her
and set her on fire. One of the cutters boats was appropriated for
her men, and they all got in, twenty in number, including boys, still
with hancicufis on, but at the reqnest of the crew the keys of the
handcufl~ were thrown itito the boat, and they released themselves
and pulled away from the schooner.
	The captors then manned two other boats, having set fire to the
schooner fore and aft, and left her. She was soon in flames and blew up
about 2 p. in., sinking at once. These two boats were overhauled by the
Forest City a~id the parties made prisoners by the Seventeenth Regulars.
The other boat, with the cutters crew, was picked up by the Chesapealw.
A fisherman, as prisoner, was among those on board the Forest City,
and from him they learned that this party had a schooner standing off
iii company. The steamer ran a few miles out to sea and overhauled
the schooner, when, on firing one gun across her bows, she hove to and
surrendered with three men on board. She proved to be the Archer,
with the gun, provisions, etc., of the Tacony. Some of the captured
men state that it was their intention, to have taken the cutter out and
exchanged the vessels, giving the crew the Archer to return in.
	As the cutter had a 32-pound gun and 12-pound brass Dahlgren on a
pivot forward, she would have been a dangerous vessel. Fortunately,
the captors of the cutter could find but 8 of her 90 round shot, or they
say they should have, fought longer, but the Chesapeake, under full
steam, woul4 have run her down, I think, and sunk her.
	The Archer I have taken into the wharf, stripped her sails, and put
her armament, stores, etc., into the old custom-house, and wait your fur-
ther orders for further proceedings in her case. She is about 90 tons
burden, and has some of her salt for fishing still on board. I found the
log book and flag of the Tacony on board the.Areher, and also six chro-
nometers which, by memorandum of rating, belonged to bark Tacony,
bark Whistling Wind, brig Umpire, brig Clarence, ship Byzantium, and
bark Good Speed, all going but the second named.
	Captain Casey kindly loaned me several of his large boats, to be used
to board the cutter in case she had disabled the steamers, and two of
them were lost while towing by the Forest City. Both of the steamers
had portions of their cargo on board, which were jeoparded, but the
agents did not hesitate to send them on that account.
	One of the prisoners stated to one of the cutters crew that it was
their intention, after firing the gunboats here. to have proceeded to Bath,
burn the shipping there, and so run across the coast of Maine.
	One of the cutters crew crept out of her forecastle and attempted to
get overboard to swim ashore and give the alarm, but was caught and
roughly forced back. I would recommend some gratuity to him for his
courageous effort. The captors are commanded by Second Lieutenant
C. W. itead, whose commission by the Confederate Secretary of the
Navy bears date October 23, 1862. The second officer in command is
Eugene II. Brown, third assistant engineer, who appears to have been
ordered to report to Admiral Buchanan, steamer Florida, and did so
report October 16, 1862.
	If the prisoners are to be treated as pirates, I would recommend their
confinement in Portland jail, but if as prisoners of war, their delivery,
when exchanged, will be more convenient, on several accounts, from Fort
Preble. What rate the owners of the steamers will charge for their ris

Page 325

OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.	325

I caiui not now state, but I took the responsibility to charter them for
the Government, and trust my action may be appi~ved. I will forward
an estimate of the expenses as soon as I can procure the items.
	Lieutenant Merryinan arrived here Saturday arid went out in the
Forest Cit~j to aid in the recapture of the cutter.
	I would respectfully recommend that an armed steamer be at once
sent and stationed here to cruise in this vicinity for the protection of
our coast.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JEDEDIAH JEWETT,
Collector.
	Hon. SALMON P. CHASE,
&#38; eretary of the Treasury, Washington, D. 0.


Report of Lieutenant Merryman, U. S. kevenue Marine, regarding the cutting out of the reve-
nue cutter Caleb Cushing, in Portland Harbor; Me.

PORTLAND, ME., June 29, 1868.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that I have this day reported to the
collector of customs here for duty, in obedience to your orders of the
24th instant. Owing to the existing events transpiring here during
the past three days, I was unable to see the collector nntil this morning.
	Arriving here at 4 oclock in the morning of the 27th instant, I was
just in tinie to join in the pursuit of the Cushing, without being able to
report to the collector. I jumped on board the steamer Forest City as
she was leaving the wharf, and finding the deputy collector, Mr. Bird,
on board, offered my services. I also found Lieutenant Eichardson,
with the boatswain, gunner, and 14 seamen of the Cushing, and, assum-
ing command of the party, proceeded to make my dispositions for the
recapture of the cutter.
	After much delay off Fort Preble taking on board two 12-pounder
field guns, 35 soldiers, and 40 muskets for my crew and our volunteers,
we started in pursuit of the cutter, which was then in plain sight from
the mouth of the harbor and standing to the westward. Steaming
rapidly after her, we ran within 2 miles of her by 11:20 a. in., when she
commenced firing her pivot gun, throwing well-directed line shots to
within 70 yards of us. As we approached her she fired five shots in
rapid succession, the last one falling within 30 feet of us. At this
moment we observed the propeller Chesapeake coming to our assistance,
and Captain Liscomb, of the Forest City, proposing to haul off out of
range and wait for her cooperation to render the recapture certain, I
agreed with him, andwe therefore bore away, and meeting the Chesapeake,
which was admirably prepared for action on such short notice, held a
short consultation, and together started for the Cushing. As we again
approached her she fired three shots, the last a stand of grape, and all
ineffectual.
	We now observed a crowded boat leaving her, which proved to con-
tain Lieutenant Davenport and his crcw, who were picked up by the
Chesapeake.
	A few moments later two more boats left her, and instantly smoke
and flames were seen bursting from her wardroom and cabin conipanion
ways. By the aid of my glasses I perceived that her decks were
deserted and that the Cushing was doomed to destruction. Expecting
every moment to see her blown to atoms, for I had learned that he

Page 326

32~	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

magazine contained 500 pounds of powder, I advised Captain Liscomb
to bear away for the boats containing the pirates and run them down.
As we neared them, however, they frantically dislayed white handker-
chiefs and masonic signs, and the steamer was therefore sheered clear
of them and stopped. They were ordered on board, and as they came
up the side were seized by the soldiers and tied. The commander,
C. W. Read, declaring himself a lieutenant in the Confederate Navy,
handed me his side arms and claimed to be a prisoner of war. After
questioning him a few minutes I turned him over to Captain [Nathan-
iel] Prime, of the Seventeenth Regniars, in command of the soldiers,
and he was placed under guard with his crew.
	Giving up all hope of saving the cutter, which was now in a sheet of
flames, we steamed to the eastward looking for the schooner Archer,
in which, we had learned from the prisoners, they had reached Port-
land Harbor, after destroying the Tacony. At 1:48 p. m. the cutter
blew up with a fearful explosion and disappeared from our view. At
2 p. m. we overhauled the Archer and, bring a shot across her bows,
hove her to. I sent Lieutenant Richardson on board to take charge,
and taking her in tow brought her into this harbor. I forgot to men-
tion that during the engagement, if it deserves that name, no ensign
was displayed on the cutter. The Taconys flag, the new flag of the
rebels, was found on board the Archer, together with their log books,
containing satisfactory evidence of her destruction. Such, sir, is the
simple narrative of the events of Saturday last, in which Ii had the
pleasure of participating. 1 am here without the command you had
complimem~ted me with~ and shall await further orders from you, while
holding myself at the same time subject to the commands of the
collector.
With great respects your obedient servant,
J.	H. MERRYMAN,
First Lieutenant, U. S. Revenue Service.
Hon. SALMON P. CHAsE,
Secretary of the Treasury, Washington, D. C.


Report of Major Andrews, .Se~enteenth U. S. Infantry, commanding post at Fort Preble, Me.,
transmitting further reports relative to the affair of the cutting out of revenue cutter
Caleb Cusbing by the C. S. schooner Archer.

HEADQUARTERS,
FORT PREBLE, ME., June 29, 1863.
	MAJOR:	I have the honor to report that about 8 a. m. on the 27th
instant I received notice that the revenue cutter Caleb Cushiny had
been. captured duringthe night previous, and that the steamer Forest
City would report to me for men and armament. I therefore ordered
Captain Nathaniel Prime, Seventeenth Infantry, with his men, and
First Lieutenant Edward Collins, Seventeenth Infantry, with a detach-
inent of time permanent party, together with one 6-pounder field
piece and one 12-pounder howitzer, to be placed on board the steamer.
I also furnished 40 muskets to the citizens who were on board.
	For the particulars of the expedition, I beg leave to refer you to the
accom~)anying reports of Captain Prime and Lieutenant Collins.
	I would also state that First Lieutenant F. E. Crosman, who is
attached to Captain Pri~me~s company, was fortunately here, and I have
suspended his orders to go to Augusta, Me., on mustering and disburs-
ing duty, for the present

Page 327

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	32~

	The prisoners were searched upon their arrival here, and I have in
my possession the appointment of C. W. Read as second lieutenant in
the Confederate Navy; also the appointment of i~. II. Brown as acting
third assistant engineer in the same service. These papers the parties
desire to have returned to them. I have also the private notebook of
Lieutenant Read, contain lug a very interesting journal of his move-
ments during the past six months; also bonds given by several vessels,
viz: June 7,1863, P. Dillen &#38; Co., Breiiham, Washington County, Texas,
5,500; June 12, 1863, schooner Kate Stewart, $7,000; June 12, 1863,
brig Arabelia, $40,000; June 20, 1863, ship Isaac Webb, $40,000; amount-
ing to 92,500, and all payable thirty days after the ratification of a
treaty of peace between the United States and the Confederate States
of America; also a few other papers of little value, all of which I hold
subject to your instructions.
	The schooner Archer and all that were on board of her, together with
the log book, are now in the custody of the collector of the port, where I
have let them remain, thinking it best at this time to do so rather than
to increase the excitement which now exists in Portland.
	You can form but a faint idea of the excitement now existing among
the citizens of Portland and vicinity. Rumor follows rumor in rapid
succession, and just before daylight this morning someone froni the
vicinity of the post went to the city with a fresh rumor which set the
whole city in a ferment. The bells were rung and men, women, and
children soon filled the streets, and were rushing hither and thither in
aimless fright.
	I would respectfully suggest that the prisoners be sent from here as
quietly and expeditiously as possible, as I do not think it safe for them
to be placed in the custody of the citizens, and, while the present excite-
ment continues, I feel obliged to mount so large a guard that one-half
of my force are on duty every night.
	This, with the daily duty of the garrison and the labor of mounting
and dismounting guns, will soon exhaust the men.
	Respectfully submitted.
GEORGE L. ANDREWS,
Major Serenteenth Infantry, Commanding Post.
Major C. T. CHRISTENSEN,

Asst. Adjt. 6~en., Department of the East, New York City.
[Enclosures.]


FORT PREELE, ME., June 27, 1863.

	MAJOR: I have the honor to make the following report of the part I
took in the capture of the crew of the bark Tacon.y:
	Agreeably to your orders, I left Fort Preble in the steamer Forest
City about 10 oclock this morning, accompanied by Lieutenant E Col-
lins and Lieutenant F. B. Crosman, with 28 men, armed and equipped
as infantry, and 10 men for the service of two field pieces which we
took with us.
	Shortly after passing the light-house, the revenue cutter Caleb Cushing
was discovered about 15 miles to leeward. We imumediately headed for
her. When within about 2 miles, she opened fire upon us from a
32-pounder, most of the shots falling short, none hitting us. I regret
to say I was not in the positiomm to take the stand my inclination dic-
tated; the steamer was. filled with citizens without -any knowledge of
the responsibilities of the situation, and who apparently had left the
harbor for a pleasure trip. The accumulated advice aimd disjointe

Page 328

328	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

comments of these bewildered the captain, who stopped his boat and
awaited the arrival of the propeller Chesapeake, some 2 miles astern of
us, although the boats were fast leaving the cutter at the time. The
propeller finally took the lead, and shortly aftei~wards the cutter was
in flames.
	There being no further danger excepting from small arms, we beaded
for the boats, and succeeded in capturing the captain, second officer,
and entire crew. Annexed I hand you a list of their names.
	From a man picked up in one of the small boats which left the cn~tter,
we learned that the schooner A~~ehe~, lately a prize to the Tacony, was
but a short distance to the eastward. We immediately started in pur-
snit. and she was brought to by a gun from the battery. We took from
her three of the crew of the Tacony and a fisherman lately captured.
	The Archer, I understand, was armed and equipped from the Tacony,
but of that I can not speak positively, as she was taken in charge by
the deputy collector of the port and taken to Portland.
	With reference to the men nuder my charge, I must say that, although
not exposed to any very imminent danger, as soon as fire was opened
upon us they manifested coolness and determination, and I have no
doubt, had they been called upon to take a more active l)art, would
have confirmed the favorable impression they made upon inc. For the
conduct of those serving with the pieces, I beg to refer you to the
enclosed report of Lieutenant Collins, who was placed immediately in
charge.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
N.	PRIME,
Captain, AS1eventcenth Infantry, U. S. Army,
Commanding Detachment.
	Major GEORGE L. ANDREWS,
Seventeenth Infantry, U. S. Army, Commanding Post.

	List of the prisoners.C. W. Read, captain; E. H. Brown, second
officer; J. W. Billups, masters mate; N. B. Pryde, masters mate;
J. W. Matherson, masters mate, and 20 seamen; Albert J. Bibber
and Eldridge Titcomb, fishermen on board the cutter and Archer,
prisoners to the crew.


FORT PREBLE, ME., June 28, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that, in pursuance to orders, I took
a detachment of two noncommissioned officers and eight men of the
permanent party of the Seventeenth Infantry at this post, with one
6-pounder fieldpiece and one 12-pounder howitzer, with a good supply
of shot and shell, and went on board the steamer Forest City in pursuit
of the revenue cutter Caleb Cushing at about 10 a. m. yesterday, the
cutter having beemi seized the night before by the crew of the Tacony.
	We caine within range of her 32-pounder about 15 miles outside of
the light-house, when she opened upon us with solid shot, several com-
ing very near, but none hitting us.
	The master of our boat was unwilling to risk her any nearer; we
could not control her movements, and had to wait for another steamer,
the Chesapeake, when we started to run her down. Seeing this move-
ment, the rebels set fire to the cutter and took to their boats.
	I did not return the fire of the cutter, as my pieces were too light at
that distance, and I did ijot wish to show their small size, preferring to
fire on her decks at the moment of boarding; nor did I fire on the boats,
as it was impossible to distinguish the rebels from the prisoners in thei

Page 329

3~29
OPERATIONS OP TIlE CRUISERSUNION.
hands. They were accordingly all received as prisoners. We then
stood for a small fishing schooner, which proved to be tho Archer, of
Southport. I fired a shot across her bows and pointed another directly
at her, when she luffed up and surrendered.
	I am gratified to say that my men were perfectly cool under fire, and
would, no doubt, in a more serious engagement have acquitted them-
selves with credit.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
EDWARD COLLINS,
	First Lieutenant, A3eventeenth lnJantry, Acting Artillery Officer.
Captain N. PRIME,
	&#38; venteenth Ji~fantry.

[Telegram.]

HEADQUARTERS, FORT PREIILE, ME.,
June 27, 18636.40 p. m. (Received 7 p. in.)
	In the private notebook of Lieutenant C. W. Read, C. S . Navy,I find
as follows:
	The latest news from Yankeedom tells us that there are over 20 gunboats in search
of us. They have the description of the Tacony and overhaul every vessel that
resemblesher. Dnring the night we transferred all onr things on board thesehooner
Archer. At 2 a. m. set fire to the Tacony and. stood west. The schooner Archer is a
fishing vessel of 90 tons, sails ~vel1, and is easily handled. No Yankee gunboat
would even dream of suspecting us. I therefore think we will dodge onr l)nrsiwis
for a short time. It is my intention to go along Iho coast with a view of burning
the shipping in some exposed harbor [and] of cutting out a steamer.

	The abov&#38; appears to have been written since the night of June 24.
The schooner taken to-day is the Archer, of Southport.
GEORG-E L. ANDREWS,
Major $erenteenth Infantry, Commanding Post.
	lion. E. M. STANTON,

&#38; cretary of War.


Report of the U. S. collector of customs at Portland, Me., relative to the commanding officer
of the revenue cutter Caleb Cushing.

COLLECTORS OFFICE,
	District of Portland and Falmouth, Portland [Me.], July 1, 1863.
	SIR: I herewith transmit you a communication from Lieutenant
Dudley Davenport, reporting himself as waiting orders.
	I am happy to say that, in my opinion, all grounds of suspicion
against Lieutenant Davenport have been removed. He refused to
show the captors the keys of the magazine or point out the sllot locker,
which they were unable to find.
	Lieutenant Read says that if lie could have found the locker, wInch
had about ninety 32-pound sllot in it, lie wotll(l have fought it out.
This would have resulted in his having been run down, with the prob-
able loss of the cutters crew, who were below in irons. Both officers
and men have, like Lieutenant Davenport, lost all their clothing on
board the cutter.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant
JEDEDIAH JEWETT,

Collector.
	Hon. SALMON P. CHAsE,
	&#38; cretary of the Treasury, Washington, D. C

Page 330

330
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
Letter from the collector of customs at Portland, Me., to the Secretary of the Treasury, transmit-
ting schedule of property found on board the C. S. schooner Archer.

CUSTOM-HOUSE, COLL~CTORS OFFICE,
Portland rMe.], July 6, 1863.
	SIR: 11 herewith transmit you a schedule of the property found on
board the schooner Archer, recaptured from the crew of the Tacony.
	The armament is nudoubtedly that which the Tacony received fi~om
the Florida, and I will take the liberty to recommend that you authorize
me to present the howitzers to the city of Portland, and the guns, pis-
tols, etc., to the officers and leading men who volunteered their services
as a slight, but to them no doubt valued, tokeu that the Governmeut
appreciates their zeal and promptness in the capture.
	I have had several applicatious from the owners of the chronometers
to return them, but have referred them to you, and would now recom-
mend that I be authorized to restore them. Some of the parties robbed
have also written me in relation to personal articles. The most
unpleasant feature connected with the matter was ti ~ ~vounding of one
man and the loss of life by another by the accidental discharge of one
of the muskets found on board the Archer, in the hands of a spectator.
The man killed was among those employed by me to ship and discharge
the Archer. He leaves a wife and two children in needy circumstances.
	The time necessary to examine carefully all the clothing, etc., for
papers has delayed the preparation of the schedule of captured prop-
erty till this day.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JEDEDIAH JEWETT,
Collector.
Hon. SALMON P. CHASE,
&#38; cretary of the Treasury, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosure.]

Inventoryof articles seized on board schooner Archer, June 27, 1863.
32 pair lambs wool hose.
2 pair worsted long hose.
3 pair worsted long hose (black).
23 pair mens woolen hose.
6~i pair blankets.
1 blanket, marked Atlantic S. 5 Co.
6 new woolen undershirts.
S new drawers.
7~ yards tine blue flannel.
28 bags seamens clothing, etc.
1 small piece silk (plaid).
2 pieces linen.
14 hammocks.
6 cotton comfortables.
7 hair and straw mattresses.
11 pillows.
7 cotton toilet covers.
3 cotton shirts.
1 black coat.
1 pair pants.
1 rubber overcoat.
1 military coat.
1 naval coat.
7 yards brown cotton.
Lot of ojicloths.
7 muskets.
1 brass howitzer (12-pounder).
5 cartridge boxes.
1 double-barreled fowling piece.
1 bell, marked Star of Empire.
3 boat sails.
6 spyglasses.
2 clocks.
t box ammunition.
1 lot candles.
1 trunk containing 2 loaves (sugar).
1 medicine chest.
3 quadrants.
1 octant. -
2 metal sextants.
1 wood sextant.
3 parallel rules.
2 small writimig desks.
1 trunk ammunition.
2 revolvers (1 in case).
4 table covers.
9 yards carpeting.
1 opera glass.
1 opera glass (iniperfect).
3 American ensigns.
1 pennant.
1 small French flag.
1 jack (American).
1 Bowditch Navbrator, marked A.
Phinney.
1 Bowditch Navigator, marked Tlios.
Irci and.
1 Coast Pilot, niarked Thos. Ireland

Page 331

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
331
inventory of articles seized on board schooner Archer, Ju e 37, 1863Continued.
1	Coast Pilot, marked James Smith.
1	Navigator, R. E. McLean, C. S. A.
1	None Navigator.
1	Thorns Navigator, A. L. Drayton.
1	Shipmasters Assistant, J. L. Robinson,
C. S. A.
1	Thorns Navigator, C. W. Read, C. S. A.
I Coast Pilot, Moffett.
2	nautical almanacs.
1	Manry Sailing Directions.
1	abstract log.
1	lunar table (French).
1	brass trumpet.
1	tin trumpet.
Lot of books, novels, etc.
2 Coast Pilots.
2 Navigators. %
1 Shipmasters Assistant.
1 log slate.
2 small slates.
1. Coast Pilot, XV. G. Munday.
1 nautical almanac, W. G. Munda~.
1 silk, vest.
3 sheets, marked Jacob Bell.
3 pillows,	~
5 bedspreads, I
6 sheets,
1 barrel bread,
2 barrels beef, I
Lot books,	J
six cIIRONOMErERS.
marked Tacony.

	\Tessel
	Make.	Number.
T. S. &#38; J. B. Negus	958	Bark Goodspeed.
Bruckbanks	0	Bask Whistling Wind.
James Bassett &#38; Son	628	Brig Umpire.
 no. Clarke	1209	Ship Byzantium.
Eg~ert &#38; Son	192	Brig Clarence.
Bliss &#38; Creighton	1861	Bark Tacony.

Two prize chronometers were blown up in the cutter.


Letter of the collector of customs, Portland, Me., to the Secretary of the Treasury, transmitting
papers found in the possession of Lieutenant Read, C. S. Navy, on board the C. S. schooner
Archer.

CUSTOM-HOUSE, COLLEC [ORS OFFICE,
Portland, [Me.], July 7, 1863.
	SIR: I herewith send you a copy of an alleged ransom bond giveu by
the master of the ship Shatemuc for the sum of $150,000, and also a
list of the vessels papers, which, with the aforesaid. bond, were found
in tile private carpetbag of Lieutenant Read, of tile Archer.
	The distrIct attorney concurs with me in recommending that the
vessels papers be retained here for the present, until we can learti
whether they will be required as evidence in certain proceedings which
may grow out of the capture of these men.
The	bond I hold, subject to your order, waiving any personal claim.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JEDEBIAR JEWETT,
Collector.
	lion. SALMON P. CHAsE,
Secretary of the Treasury, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosures.]

C.	S. BARK FLORIDA NO. 2 [TACONY],
At Sea, June 24, 1863.
$150,000.
	Thirty days after the ratification of a treaty of peace between the
Confederate States and the United States of America, 1, or we, promise
to pay to the President of the Confederate States the sum of one hun-
dred and fifty thousand dollars ($150,000) for the release of tile ship
Shatemuc and cargo.
	[SEAL.]	JOHN H. OXNARD,
		  Master, Shm~ Shatemuc

Page 332

332	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.

Inventory of papers found in the carpetbag of Lieutenant Read, of schooner Archer.

	Register, list of crew, bills lading, ship Byzantium, of New York.
	Enrollment, license, manifest, shipping articles, and sua&#38; ry official papers relating
to cargo, brig Mary Alvina, P. W. Frohock, niaster.
	Register, list crew, clearance, etc., bark Goodspeed, Christopher Lays, master, New
York.
	Register, manifest, and official papers of cargo, bark Tacony, of Philadelphia,
William G. Munday, master.
	Register, clearance, manifest, and sundry shipping papers, brig Clarence, of Balti-
more, Alvan Phinney, master.
	Register, list crew, and sundry shipping papers, brig Umpire, of Boston, Jesse
Perry, master.
	Enrollment, license, and sundry papers of bark Whistling Wind, of New York,
Thomas Butler, master.

List fishermens papers found in the carpetbag of Lieutenant Read, of schooner Archer.

	Enrollment and license, schooner Ada, 69P~ tons.
	Enrollment and license, schooner ]Jfarengo, 82~ tons.
	Enrollment and license, schooner Rufus Choate, 9O~ tons.
	Enrollment and license, schooner Ripple, 64i~ tons.
	Enrollment and license, schooner Elizabeth Ann, 91~ tons.
	Enrollment and license, schooner Wanderer, 93~ tons.


Order of the commandant navy yard, Philadelphia, to Commander Colvocoresses, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Saratoga, to occupy a position at the Delaware Breakwater.

NAVY YARD, PHILADELPHIA, June 27, 1SGS.

	SIR:	After taking on board your ammunition from the magazine you
will proceed with the ship under your command to the breakwater at
the entrance of Delaware Bay.
	The object of the Saratoga being stationed at the breakwater is to
protect shipping entering the bay aiid frequenting the anchorage at
the breakwater from any sudden attack by pirates, privateers, or other
freebooters. Such an attempt may be made at any time. You will
therefore have your ship prepared to defend the anchorage and protect
the shipping in it from any such attempt. You will have your boats
kept in constant readiness for any service.
	As your crew are mostly landsmen, it is the more important that
they should be constantly exercise(l in all the duties they may at any
moment be called upon to perform. II would reconimend you to have
the men frequently exercised in the boats, and keep your launch in the
water, ready to leave at any moment if required, and when boats leave
the ship see that they have sails, awnings, water, etc., in them. Make
me a weekly report, giving such information as you may think impor-
tant. Ascertain, I U you can, the best means of keeping np communi-
cation with the city, and inform inc of it.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	C. K. STRIBLING,
	Commander GEORGE COLYOCORESSES,	Commandant.
Commanding U. S. S. Saratoga, Philadelphia.


Letter of Major-General Wool, U. S. Army, commanding Department of the East, to the Secre-
tary of the Navy, urging the presence of U. S. S. Roanoke in New York Harbor.

HEADQUARTERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE EAST,
New York City, June 28, 1863.
	SIR:	I telegraphed you last night in relation to the retention in this
port of the ironclad steamer I3oauoke. hi reply, you say that you

Page 333

333
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
orders in relation to her future disposition can not be revoked. I regret
to learn this, for since then I have examined the navy yard. There is,
save the Boanoke, no vessel that will be fit for ser~ce under some ten
days. I again repeat that this great emporium, from which both Army
and Navy receive their supplies, as ~vel1 as pay, ought not to be left
without means of defense. The volunteers and liuilitla of this city are
being sent to Pennsylvania to aid iu the defense of that State. We
shall be at the mercy of any privateers that may think pvoper to assail
this city. The temptation is indeed great, for the want of men to man
the guns in the forts of the harbor.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, yonr obedient servant,
JOHN E. WooL,
ill ajor- General.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.

	P. S.I was accompanied in my visit to the navy yard by Ex-Gov-
ernor Morgan, now U. S. Senator.
JOHN E. WOOL,
Major- General.


[Telegram.]

NAVY 1)EPARTMENT, June 28, 1863.
	Commodore Montgomery has orders to commission any officers
selected by Mr. Hardy and associates. It was not understood that any
officers of the Navy were to go in these vessels.
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
	II. B. FOWBES, Esq.,
Boston, ]Iiliass...


Report of Commander Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding chartered steamer Elackstone, of
cruise in search of the C. S. bark Tacony.

U.	S. CHARTERED STEAMER BLACKSTONE,
New York, June 28, 1863.
	SIR: II have the honor to report the arrival of this vessel from a cruise
in search of the privateer or pirate bark Tacony.
	In compliance with your instructions, I confined the search between
the western edge of the Gulf Stream and the shoals of Nantucket and
the two Georges to the eastward as far as longitude 62~ W. and north
to latitude 420.
	The Blackstone has communicated with upward of fifty sail of vessels.
That her cruising has been intelligently directed is attested by the fact
that twice has the Blackstone been near the Tacony. They were con-
cealed from each other in one instance by the darkness of night and
in the other by the obscurity of a fog. As a necessary result of board-
ing and speaking vessels much time has thus been consumed, notwith-
standing nearly 2,000 miles have been traversed. Unfortunately, much
of the time thick, hazy weather prevailed, alternating with heavy rain
and stiff northeasterly winds.
	I beg leave to commend the zeal, enterprise, and courtesy of Captain
Berry and his officers. The two officers, Messrs. Borden and Palmer,
who accompanied me are zealous and intelligent young men, who gav

Page 334

334	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

me entire satisfaction. The seamen, who were chiefly from the ~tcainei
Quaker City, were all excellently well deported men.
	In obedience to my instructions, I have returned to port within two
weeks. The necessity of a resupply of coal rendered the return of the
ship an imperious necessity. I shall be glad to renew the search for
the Tavony at an early moment.
I am, respectftilly, your obedient servant,
A.	S. BALDWIN,

Commander.
	Rear-Admiral H. PAULDING,
Commanding U. S. Naval Station, New York.


[Telegram.]

U.	S. FLAGSHIP MINNESOTA,

Off Newport News, June 28, 18632 p. m.
(Received at Washington 4:15 p. in.)
	Young Rover yesterday returned from cruise between Capes II atteras
and Henry, needing coal and repairs. She has no news. Dai Ching
started for sea yesterday and obliged to stop at the [Hampton] Roads
for repairs, which will take several days. Will report to-morrow.
	S. P. LEE,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES.	Acting Rear-Admiral.


Letter from the mayor of Portland, Me., to the Secretary of the Navy, requesting protection
for that harbor.

CITY OF PORTLAND [ME.],
Mayors Office, June 29, 1863.
	DEAR SIR: Of the destruction of the cutter Morris [Galeb Cushing]
off this harbor on Saturday last you are, I have no doubt, advised.
We are now entirely unprotected as regards any guns afloat. Can you
station a small gunboat, with a couple of guns or more aud a crew of
from 40 to 50 men, to guard the entrance to our harbor until our forts
are completed or until a good cutter can be stationed here to relieve
her? We are now garrisoning Fort Gorges nights with volunteers.
There are some 18 guns mounted in the fort, and, as I learn, a plemity
of ammunition in the magazine. Previous to our putting the volun-
teers in the fort there was not a man there to mount guard at night.
Respectfully, yours
JACOB MCLELLAN,
Mayor.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy, Washington.


Order of the commandant navy yard, Boston, to Acting Master Pitman, to assumo temporary
command of chartered schooner 3. G. Curtis and cruise for the protection of commerce.

BOSTON NAVY YARD, June 29, 1863.
	SIR: You are hereby appointed an acting master on temporary service
in the Navy of the United states, without pay.
	You will cruise in such a direction as the committee of Boston mer-
chants may direct in search of the privateers preying on our commerce

Page 335

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	835

Should you meet any of them you will capture them and bring them to
this port or such other as your instructions direct. On your return
from this duty you will report to inc and your app~ntment will cease.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,

Commandant.
	Acting Master HENRY C. PITMAN,
Commanding Schooner J. G. Curtis, Navy Yard, Boston.

Order of the commandant, navy yard, Boston, to the acting master in temporary command
of the cha4ered schooner W. S. Baker to cruise for the protection of commerce.

BOSTON NAVY YARD, June 29, 1863.

	SIR: You are hereby appointed an acting master in the Navy of the
United States, on temporary service, without pay.
	You will cruise in such a direction as the committee of Boston mer-
chants may direct in search of the privateers preying upon our coin-
merce. Should you meet any of them you will capture them and bring
them to this port or such other as your instructions direct. On your
return from this duty you will report to me and your appointment will
cease.
I am, respectfully, your obedient Servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,

Commandant.
ACTING MASTER,
Comrn#~tnding Schooner W. S. Baker, Navy Yard, Boston.

Letter from the commandant navy yard, Boston, to the Secretary of the Navy requesting
instructions in view of the destruction of the C. S. bark Tacony.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE, U. S NAVY YARD,
Boston, June 2.9, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to state that there seems to be no doubt of the
reported destruction of the Tacony and the capture of her late officers
and crew. Will you please inform inc if the chartered vessels sent in
pursuit of the Tacony are to be discharged upon their return to this
1)ort ~ The men and officers employed in them are needed for our ves-
sels nearly ready for sea.
Ii	am, respectfully, your obedieiit servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY.

Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 30, 1863.

	It is reported that some of the Taconys crew are in other vessels,
If so, the search should be continued; otherwise, discharge chartered
vessels as they arrive. The steamers ]Jfontgomery and Iron Age had
better look into all the ports to the eastward and be sure no pmrates
are amongst our fishermen.
GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy.
	Commodore JOHN B. MONTGOM~RY,
Comma dant Navy Yard, Boston

Page 336

336	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMIM~T, June 30, P~63.

	Will you ascertain if all the Taconys crew were captured, or are some
of them still on board other captured vessels? Have you aiiy authen-
tic information of other pirates off the coast?

GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Nary.
The MAYOR OR PRESIDENT BOARD OF TRADE

Of Portland, Mc.


[Telegram.]

PORTLAND [ME.], Jnnc 30, 1863.

(Received at Washington 7:35 p. in.)
	We are confident that we have all the Taconys crew here in prison.
We have no inlPrrnation of any other pirates being off this coast.
JACOB MOLELLAN,
Mayor.
GIDEON WELLES,
Asecretary Navy.


Report of the commandant of the navy yard, Philadelphia, transmitting report of Acting Mas..
ter West, U. S. Navy, commanding schooner Kate Stewart.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE, U. S. NAVY YARD,
Philadelphia, June 30, 1863.
	SIR: The Kate Stewart, the only sailing vessel sent from here in
pursuit of the pirate Tacony, returned from her cruise day before yes-
terday. I enclose the report of Acting Master John West.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	K. STRIBLING,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington City, D. C.

[Enclosure.]

	Report of a cruise on board the schooner Kate Stewart in search of
the bark Tacony, now in possession of the rebels or pirates:
	Tnesdiiy, June 16, 1863, at 10 a. in., received orders from Commodore
C. K. Stribhing to proceed to sea immediately in the Kate Stewart in
search of the bark Tacony. At 2:30 p. m. (having received on board one
12-pound howitzer, 15 muskets, with accouterments, shells, and ammu-
nition and provisions, also received 15 men from the U. S. receiviiig
ship Princeton) proceeded down the river in tow of the steamer Tona-
wanda. At 4:30 a. in., June 17, being abreast of Cape ilenlopen, cast
off from the steamer, made all sail, and proceeded to sea, steering in a
N. B. direction as far as latitude 400 10 N., from thence eastward to
the edge of the Gulf Stream, then following the stream in a southerly
direction. June 19, at 4 p. iii., spoke the schooner John B. Austin, froum
Boston for Philadelphia; had iiot seen any suspicions-looking vessels.
At 5:30 p. in. spoke th~ schooner P. Brittamn, from Philadelphia fo

Page 337

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	337

Boston; had not seen any suspicious-looking vessels. Weather at this
time thick and rainy, with strong E. N. E. winds; nothing in sight.
Proceeded in a southerly direction, following th~ edge of the (kif
Stream. June 20 spoke the English brig Mary Alice, from San Domingo
for New York; reported having seen the day I)revions a steam propel-
ler, bark rigged, painted lead color, round stern with a gilt eagle ou it,
steering W. N. W. June 21, at 7 a. in., was spoken and boarded by the
U. S. S. Adela, Lieutenant-Commander L. IN. Stodder, from Fortress
Monroe, on a cruise. After requesting us to heave to, he hauled down
the American flag and set the Eiwlish t1a~. After boarding us, he stood
oft in a southerly direction. keeping the English flag flying. At 12
noon, same day, saw aii English war screw steamer, barR rigged, steer-
ing east, with all sail set. Monday, June 22, at 11:30 a. in.,judged our-
selves in the latitude of Cape flatteras, the wind being S. W., with
thick, rainy weather. Shaped our course to the N. and E. up to lati-
tude 370 25 IN.; from thence east to the edge of the Gulf Stream;
weather at this time very hazy and nearly calm, with nothing in sight.
June 24, at noon, a light breeze sprung up from the northward. Hav-
ing now completed our cruise according to instructions, we shaped
our course to N. and W. for the capes of Delaware. June 25, at 11 a  in.,
saw a large steamer steering south; set our colors to speak, but he
avoided us by altering his course, and did not answer our signal until
we fired a gun across his bow, when he hoisted his colors (American),
but kept on his course; saw his name on the stern, the Ocean Queen, of
New York. Same day spoke and boarded the steam propeller General
Burnside, fro~m New York, with stores and passengers, bound to New
Berne, N. C. Reported having not seen any suspicious-looking vessels.
At 9 p. in. made Cape Henlopen light, bearing W. N. W. per compass,
distant about 5 leagues. At midnight passed the cape aiid stood up
the bay with strong E. S. E. wind and thick, rainy weather. June 27,
at 10 p. in., came to anchor opposite navy yard.
Respectfully, your most obedient servant,
-	JOHN WEST,

Acting Master, U. S. Navy.
	Commodore C. K. STRIBLING-,
Commanding U. S. Navy Yard, Philadelphia.


[Telegram.]


PORTLAND, ME., [~hdy] 1, 1863.
	As a reply to the telegram of the Secretary of the Navy to the mayor,
I would state that the journals captured on board schooner Archer,
which I sent you yesterday by mail, show conclusively that we have
taken all the officers and men who left the Florida to man sailing ves-
sels successively, as captured, to wit: 22, with 3 ~vho have joined them
from a prize.
	The journal of Drayton, a seaman, humorous, but telltale, shows that
the Tacony cruised oft Nantucket, ex~)ectiIig to meet tile Florida there.
Of this fact I have advised Admiral Paniding, at New York.
J.	JEWETT,

Collector.
S.	P. CHASE.
N W RYOL ti2

Page 338

338	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to the chairman committee on harbor defense, New
Haven, Conn., regarding protection for that place.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 1, 1863.

	SIR:	I have received your letter of the 26th ultimo, enclosing a copy
of a resolution passed in court of common council of the city of New
flaven, also a letter addressed to inc by his Excellency Governor Buck-
ilighani) in relerence to the defenseless condition of that city.
	in answer to your request that a vessel of war may be immediately
sent to 4 ew fi aven for the protection of the city, I would respectfully
state that it is impossible, with our present force, for the Department
to place a vessel at every exposed point. Such vessels as we have at
iNew Xork or elsewhere will be prepared to respond promptly to any
immediate danger. The revenue cutters, which are properly the coast
guard, are under the immediate control of the Secretary of the Treasury.
I am, sir, very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy.
II.	M. MACK, Esq.,
Chairman Committee on Harbor Defense, Yew Haven, Coun.


Letter from the commandant navy yard, Boston, to the Secretary of the Navy, relative to
discharge of chartered vessels.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE U. S. NAVY YARD,
Boston, July 1, 1863.
	SIR:	In answer to yonr telegraphic communication of tIme 30th ultimno,
I have the honor to state that from the best information I can gather
there are none of the crew of the Tacony in other vessels, and I shall
therefore, as directed, discharge the chartered vessels as they may
arrive. As soon as the steamers iron Age and Montgomery return
from their present cruises, they will be sent to look into all the ports
at the eastward, unless otherwise ordered.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
lion. GIDEON WELLES.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of the commandant of navy yard, Boston, of the return of bark Trinity from search
for the C. S. bark Tacony.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE,U.S. NAVY YARD,
Boston, July 1, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report the return of the bark Trinity, after
a cruise of thirteen days in search of the privateer Tacony.
Jam, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 339

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	339

[Telegram.]

BROOKLYN,~JU1y 1, 1863.

(Heceived at Washington, D  0., 4:05 p.m.)
	J. Jewett, esq., customs collector, Portland, telegraphs: A private
journal captured from Tacony and Archer shoxvs that the former was
cruising off Nantucket to meet the Florida. Have sent this with
other journals to Washington.
II.	PAULDING,
Commandant.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


Report of Lieutenant-Commander Keade, U. S. Navy, commanding chartered steamer United
States, of the second cruise of that vessel in the seaich for the C. S. bark Tacony.

U.	S. S. UNITED STATES,
Off New York, July 1, 1863.
	ADMIRAL: Having coaled ship for fifteen days, I left the dock at
12:30 p. in. of the 27th ultimo, and running through Long Island Sound,
reached Woods loll, in the Vineyard, at 4 a. in. (28th). 1 there sent in
n boat, having so arranged in New York that the latest position of tile
Tacony should be telegraphed to tue at that point. hearing nothing
new, I continued my course arouiid the cape and was off Chatham
light-house at noon same day, having averaged 12 knots per hour in
the run from New York. Here I boarded the revenue cutter Morris,
cruising, and informed her commander of tile news in regard to the
Gushing, which Commodore liadford had sent inc a moment before
leaving New York. At 1 p. m. fell in with pilot boat No. 6, of Boston,
and learned that the Gushing had been cut out of Portland Harbor by
the Taconys crew the day before, and that steamers had been sent in
chase of her. I immediately steered for a point to the eastward of
Portland, running at full speed, and cruise(l all night and part of the
next forenoon to leeward of the port. Hearing nothing from the vessels
overhauled during that time, I determined to run for Portland, and
anchored there at 4 p. m. (29th). The mayor and Collector Jewett
visited the vessx and showed me the Taconys log, captured on Satur-
day in the schooner Archer, by which it appears that, finding himself
hotly pursued in the Taco:y, and fearing destruction if fallen in with
by our cruisers, Read transferred his crew, etc., to tile Archer on Friday,
and then burned the Tacdny. This occurred in latitude 430 28 N.,
longitude 67~ 50 W. I telegraphed to you for instructions (upon learn-
ing all this), but hearing that I might be delayed overnight by await-
ing.an answer, determined to steer for New York direct.
	The private log of Read was also captured. It commences with the
cruise of the steamer Florida after leaving Mobile, and contains the
cruise of the Clarence and Tacony, or rather Florida No. 2.
	From portions of this log I have strong reason to believe that Read
expected to meet Maffitt in the Florida off Nan tncket about 20th nltiino,
and was rather disappointed that he did not do so. At least the tenor
of this remarkable journal fitvors that surmise. I deemed this irlforma-
tion of great importance, and therefore did not confide it to the tele-
graph, and enjoined upon Mr. Jewett the necessity of keeping it from
getting abroad and also that of sending this log to the Navy l)epart-
ment, as it contains valuable information.
	In conclusion, admiral, although too late to participate in the affair
off Portland, the cruise of this vessel has not, I think, been wholl

Page 340

340	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

barren of results. The bold attempt of this daring rebel had well-nigh
succeeded. Had he escaped from Portland (which, I am inclined to
think, he would have done had he found the amn~inition in the cutter)
he must have been overhaulcd by this vessel next day, as I cruised
directly to the eastward of him, with the wind due west. I can not
help regretting that I did not fall in with him, as in that event Captain
Read and the crew of Florida No. 2 would scarcely be prisoners of war
in Fort Preble.
I am, admiral, very respectfully,
RIcHARD W. MEADE, Jn.,
Lieutenant- Commander, U. ~. Navy.

	Rear-Admiral II. PAULBING, U. S. Navy,
Commandant Navy Yard, New York.

	P. S.By the log of the Tacony it now appears that this vessel has
four times crossed her track and at oime time passed within 30 miles of
her. This was on the 18th June. The next day I captured the brig
Isabella Thompson, the master of which vessel now says that he spoke
the Tacony the night before. But when taken he positively asserted to
me that he had not seen a bark of the Taconys description.


Leter from the governor of IVlassachusetts to the Secretary of the Navy, setting forth the
defenseless condition of the coast of that State.

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS,
Executive Department, Boston, July 1, 1863.
	SIR: I am receiving representations daily, both oral and written,
froum towns and cities along the Massachusetts coast, setting forth their
defenseless condition, concerning which the recent exploits of the
Tacony have caused additional apprehension.
	A swift war steamer stationed at Provincetown would, in my opin-
ion, be the most efthctual means under existina circumstances to pro-
mote their secnrity. Without such a guard for the coast, a rebel ves-
sel, manned by as daring a crew as that of the Tacony, might burn
half the towns along Cape Cod, and might even lay, for a few hours
such ports as Salem, Marblehead, Beverly, Gloucester, B ockport, and
Newburyport, nuder contribution, none of which are defended by a
single gun. Such a steamer as the Alabama or the Florida could, I
believe, do this without so great risk as such an enterprise ought to
imivolve. The ignorance of time rebels as to our defenseless condition
is our most effectual protection in the absence of action by the Navy
Department. For the present moment the Navy has cruisers all along
this edast, but they are only temporarily here, and were not sent until
the Tacony had rioted along the Vineyard Sound for four days. The
presence of a swift war steamer at Provincetown, or in its neighbor-
hood, guarding from that position both the mouths of Massachusetts
Bay and of the Vineyard Sound, would probably have prevented the
Tacony from venturing here at all.
	I have had the honor previously to address this same request to the
Department. I beg you to believe that it is only my clear sense of its
importance which induces me to urge it again upon your consideration.
I have the honor to remain, sir, obediently, yours,
JOHN A. ANDREW,
Governor of Massachusetts.
	lion. cTIDEON WELLES,
&#38; cretary of the Navy

Page 341

OPERATIONS OF THE GRUISERSUNION.	341

Report of the commandant of the navy yard, Philadelphia, transmitting report of Acting Mas-
ter Johnson, U. S. Navy, commanding steam tug America.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE, U. S. ~AVY YARD,
Philadelphia, July 2, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to enclose herewith the report of Acting Mas-
ter Johnson of the cruise of the tug America..
	This is the last vessel sent out from this port in pursuit of the
Tacony.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedicut servant,
C.	K. STRIBLING,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington City, D. C.

[Enclosure.]

STEAM TUG AMERICA, July 2, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to submit to you the following report of the
cruise of tug America: After leaving the capes of Delaware we shaped
our course for Nantucket Shoals. Saturday, the 27th instant, spoke the
U. S. S. Shenandoah, after sighting the light-ship on the south shoal.
We then cruised~ to the eastward as far as 68~ W. longitude. Sunday,
the 28th instant, spoke the U. S. S. Cherokee, from Boston, on a cruise,
during which time we have boarded and spoken several merchantinen,
but could obtain no information of the bark Tacony until Monday, the
.,	Oi1~itl1dC 68~ 30 W.
29th instant~ when, in latitude 410 30 N I
boarded the brig A. Rowell, of Lnbec, Me., from Portland [Me.], bonnd
to Key West, Captain Dennis Dolan. From him we obtained the iiifor-
mation of the destruction of the bark Tacony by her officers and crew,
preparatory to taking a schooner, and the seizure of the revenne cutter
in Portland Harbor, resulting in the destruction of the cutter and the
capture of the officers and crew of the pirate bark by the steamers Forest
City and Chesapeake. After obtaining this information I have returned
to this port.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
M.	II. JOHNSON,
Acting Master, U. S. Navy.
	Commodore C. K. STRIELING,
Philadelphia Navy Yard.


Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Stodder, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Adela, of the
cruise of that vessel in the search for the C. S. bark Tacony.

U. S. S. ADELA,
Fortress Monroe, Jr ly 3, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report the arrival of this vessel this morn-
ing for orders. I have on board 45 persons taken from prize steamers
Britannia and Victory, put on board this vessel at Port Royal by Rear~
Admiral Da Pont for conveyance North. I left this port June 20 In
obedience to orders by telegraph proceeded off Indian River Inlet, bnt
could gain no information of the Theony; spoke a vessel who reported
the Tacony was last seen steering S. E. I stood S. B. across the Gulf
[Stream], cruising in the track of homeward-bound vessels until in lati-
tude 330 N.; stood in to the coast and put into Port Royal for coals; left
Port Royal June 30. I enclose (A.) copy of instructions from Rear

Page 342

~42	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Admiral Du Pont, also (B) a list of passengers, officers, and crew of
the prize steamer Britannia. I also enclose reports of the conduct of
Acting Ensign T. W. Walker, of this vessel. *
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
Louis N. STODDER,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commandinq.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

Report of the commandant navy yard, Boston, of the return of vessels from the search for the
C.	S bark Tacony.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE, U. S. NAVY YARD,
Boston, July 3, 18G3.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that the chartered vessels Annie
[Amy] and George Shattuck have returned from their cruises and have
been discharged; also that the Iliowquah and ]Iliontgomery have returned
to this station.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Waskington, D. C.


Report of Commander Patterson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. James Adger, of the cruise
of that vessel in the search for the C. S. bark Tacony.

U.	S. S. JAMES ADGER,
Off Navy Yard, New York, July .3, 18G3.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that, in obedience to orders from
Commodore Stribling to cruise iii search of the Tacony, I left the navy
yard, Philadelphia, on the evening of the 25th nltimo, and was detained
in the Delaware by foggy weather until noon of the 27th, when I
passed the capes and steamed slowly to the northward and eastward.
Off Cape IJenlopen, boarded American bark W. Iii. Wall, seven days
from Key West, bound to New York; also American propellcr George
Cromwell, seven days from New Orleans, bound to New York. During
the night of the 27th ultimo did not sight any vessels, and at daylight
of the 28th a dense fog set in, which continued until 10 a. in. of tue
29th ultimo, when I fell in with the propellers Governor Buckiugham
and Star of the South, latitude 400 40 N., longitude 71~ W. Coin-
municated with Commanders Nicholson and Cooper, and learned from
them that the Tacony had been destroyed, but it being reported that a
portion of her officers and men were cruising in fishing boats, I deemed
it advisable to remain in the vicinity and westward of Nantucket
Shoals, while the Go?ernor Bucicinyham and Star of the South stood to
the eastward In the afternoon of the sanie day boarded a number of
fishing vessels and found that a state of great alarm existed among
them, which the presence of a cruiser removed. At 7 p. in., No Maits
Land bearing IN. N. W., distant 15 miles,exchanged numbers with the
U. S. ship John A dams, standing to the southward and eastward. Thick
fog during the night and no vessels in sight. On the 30th ultimo, lati

* Enclosures unimportant

Page 343

OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSIJNION.	343

hide 400 35 N., longitude 700 10 W., boarded several vessels from the
West Indies bound to Portland, but received no intelligence from them.
Continued cruising during the night near South Skoal.
	On the morning of the 1st instant, 10 miles S. 57W. of Gay Head, I
was informed by a fisherman (who had been alongside of her two or
three hours previous) that a propeller gunboat, name unknown, had
broken her shaft and intended going to Holmess Hole. I proceeded to
that place to render her assistance, but did not find her there, nor could
I ascertain anything in regard to her. As the wind was fair for New
Bedford, I presume she ran into that harbor. On the morning of the
2d, being short of coal, I steamed to the westward, and arrived at this
navy yard at 1 p. m. to-day.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
T.	H. PATTERSON,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander Parker, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, of the arrival of
that vessel at Boston.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP TUSCARORA,
Navy Yard, Boston, July 6, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of the Tuscarora at this
port to-day at 11 oclock a. ni. For the last twelve days this vessel has
cruised behveen Cape Henry and time coast of Nova Scotia, and on
Georges Bank, in search of pirates. We have boarded and spoken
many vessels, but none of them were of a suspicious character. I shall
resume the cruise, unless otherwise ordered, so soon as I can take in
the necessary supply of coal.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. A. PARKER,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Gregory, U. S. Navy, commanding chartered steamer
Honduras, of the cruise of that vessel in searching for the C. S. bark Tacony.

U.	S. CHARTERED STEAMER HONDURAS,
Pro rincetown, Mass., July 6, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that, in obedience to your orders, I
proceeded to sea via Long Island Sound with the chartered steamer
Honduras, under my command, on the afternoon of the 26th ultimo.
The accompanying tables will show the ground over which I have
cruised, the number of vessels boarded, and information gained.
	On June 29 the captain of Hanover bark Junior reports that on
the Grand Banks [of Newfoundland], on the 17th of ,June, he was
chased for a number of hours by a bark with l)ailited ports, no royals,
having a net for jib to fall in, flying Confederate colors, which fired at
him repeatedly, but, time wind being light, was unable to overtake him,
and at sunset gave up the chase amid stood to N. and E.
	On the same date the captain of Bremnen bark Goethe reports that a
few days previous lie had been spoken by a three-masted schooner,
who desired not to be reported

Page 344

344	OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSUNION.

	From this information I received I assumed the responsibility of
exceeding my instructions to go no farther than longitude ~J2 W., lati-
tude 420 N., which point I passed July 1, and tq go as far northward
and eastward as a prudent use of my coal would permit, in all cases
furnishing American ships bound eastward with full copies jdescrip-
tions] of all suspicious vessels seeu iu the neighborhood of the Banks,
over which their track lay.
	After leaving Sable Island, which I was unable to sight by reason of
fogs, I pursued a course along toward Halifax, hoping to cut off any sus-
picious vessels, thinking that a brigantine which eluded Acting Master
Pennell, of the Ethan Allen, on the night of June 30, might have taken
that course. He reports her as painted lead color, loss of main topgal-
lant mast, acting in a most suspicious manner; was unable to overtake
her in consequence of superior sailing qualities.
	July 3.While running south in the track of vessels bound to Halifax,
spoke the fishing schooner Northern Light, from Quereau Banquereau]
Banks, homeward bound; reports a great number of vessels on the
banks; says that a privateer could, with ease, destroy 100 sail in a short
time. He was uninformed as to the Taconys operations on our coast.
	July 4.Owing to the continued and painful illness of the chief engi-
neer of the vessel, and in accordance with the request of all the officers,
I felt warranted to bear for the nearest point for medical assistance, and
arrived at this port at noon of this day.
	I send a copy of the letter addressed to inc by the officers. After
receiving medical treatment, which has relieved the engineer of the
sufferings consequent upon an abscessed jaw, I shall leave for New
York, via hong Island Sound.
1 am, very respectfully, your most obedient servant,
II.	M. GREGORY,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding.
Rear-Admiral II. PAULDING,
U. AS~. Navy.


[Telegram.]
CHARLESTOWN MASS.,	18631:20 p. m.
July 7,
(Received at Washington 1:45 p. in.)
	U. S. S. Iron Age arrived at this yard at 9 oclock this a. m. from
cruise after the Tacony.
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Gregory, U. S. Navy, commanding chartered steamer
Honduras, of arrival at New York Navy Yard,

NAvY YARD, NEW YORK, July 8, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of the chartered steamer
Honduras, under my command, at this yard at 12 m. this day.
I am, very respectfully, your most obedient servant,
B.	M. GREGORY,
Acting Foiunteer Lieutenant, (Jommauding.
	Rear Admiral II. PAULDING,
U.	S. Navy

Page 345

OPERATIONS OP	TIlE CRUJSERSUN!ON. 345

[Telegram.]


CIIARLE8TOWN,~JU1y 10, 1863.
(Received at Washingtoii 1:10 p. in.)
U.	S. bark Ethan Allen has arrived at this yard from a cruise after
the Tacony.	~. B. MONTGOMERY,
	Commandant.
	lion. G. WELLES.


Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to the governor of Massachusetts regarding the course
of the Department in the affair of the C. S. bark Tacony.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 11, 1863.

	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the rcceipt of your communi-
cation of the I st instant. The alarm created by the reckless depreda-
tions of the Tcteony is ~ snrprisi~g. Similar dangers may not be
immediate, but the Navy iDepartment has, as you probably are informed,
taken measures with a view to guard against a repetition.
	Two steamersthe Aries and the Iron Ageand two sailing cruisers
with formidable batteriesthe brig Perry and the Ethan Allenwith
perhaps one armed schooner, have been, or will be, ordercd to the
protection of the commerce and fisheries and coasts of Ncw England.
These vessels will have orders for permanent service on that coast
dnring the fishing season, and other cruisers will be specially detailed
in cases of ~nergency.
	The shore defenses of the towns mentioned by you and of other
places on the coast belong, perhaps, strictly to a Department other
than this, but any aid that the demands will allow us to exten(l we
desire to give, and the fact that there are cruisers on coast naval
service will doubtless operate to some extent as a preventive against
such craft, and also afford a sense of security. The necessity of addi-
tional cruisers on the seas, the demands of our squadrons for additional
vessels, and the want of seamen to man them prevent the detailing of
a larger force. It is deemed best that but one of the steamers detached
should be stationed at an available point where intelligence can be
promptly communicated and received in order to be at any moment
available. I had thought that Boston would be the best place to be
selected for this purpose, but if Provincetown, in the opinion of your-
self and others, is a more suitable location, I certainly should be
disposed to consult your views and wishes.
	I regret to learn that some of the places enumerated by you have not
a single gun for their defense. Although it is iiot strictly within the
province of this Department to supply these wants, I shall, as you are
already advised, be desirous to assist you, as we have done to some
extent, with such naval ordnance as we can spare for temporary
batteries to protect the points exposed. Besides the legitimate duties
of blockading and cruising, the Navy has been efficient in capturing
forts and batteries and protecting many places, umitil there seems to
be a reliance npon and a demand for gunboats and ironclads that can
not be met and is wholly incompatible with the imperative require-
ments of the service in its proper element.
	I need not assure you that it will be, as it has ever been, my duty to
render whatever assistance is in the power of the Department, consist

Page 346

~46
OPERATIONS OF TilE CRUISERSUNION.
ent with other duties) to our fellow-citizens in Massachusetts, and to
respond promptly at all times to impending danger. It was therefore
with surprise aud regret I read your statement that vessels were
not sent until the Tacony had rioted along the Vineyard Sound for
four days.
	To this very extraordinary statement in an official paper from the
chief magistrate of Massachusetts 1 shall respond by stating the facts.
	The Tacony was cal)ture(l by Read and his crew on the I 2th of June.
Information of the fact was communicated to the Department on the
evening of the 13th of June. Within thirty minutes thereafter orders
were dispatched to send public vessels immediately after the Tacony,
and additional orders were given the next morning (Sunday), as also
subsequently, to charter and, if necessary, to seize vessels for that
purpose.
	Before 12 oclock Saturday night, the 13th of June, the steamers
Young Rover, Commodore Jones, and Western World had sailed from
Hampton Roads in search of the Tacony. On the following (lay the
&#38; rninole, Tusearora, Dai Ching, Adela, and Virginia, all stean~ers, left
New York, and many others, naval arid chartered vessels, followed on
the 15th and 16th.
	On the 15th (Monday) three chartered steamers left Philadelphia,
and the next day a chartered schooner followed in pursuit of the Tacony.
On the 16th five chartered vessels, and on the 17th the steamer Mont-
gorn cry and bark Trinity left Boston on the same errand. The steamer
Cherokee also left the same day, but from some derangement in her
compass returned again and departed the next day.
	I have not the means of knowing what day the Tacony entered the
Vineyard Sound, but on the 20th of June she captured the Isaac Webb,
bound for New York, the first capture in that vicinity reported to the
Department. But the 1)epartmeut had sent out more thaii twenty ves-
sels in j)ursuit of the Tacony prior to the capture of the Webb. Many
had been then six days cruising for her.
	Within two days from the time the Tacony was captured and appro-
priated to piratical purposes the Department had issued orders to seimd
vessels in pursuit, and those orders were promptly carried into effect.
Not only public vessels were dispatched, but private vessels were char-
tered, and orders were given to seize vessels, if necessary, for this service.
	Yet your Excellency has thought proper to say no vessels were sent
until the Tacony had rioted along th~ Vineyard Sound for four days.
It is not for me to reconcile your statement with these facts. I am
unwilling to believe that you would have made the assertion had you
known what measures the Department had taken, and regret that you
did not ascertain the facts before making it. It is not often that I
devote.a moment to controvert or correct even undeserved censure or
misrepresentation, but this, in an official communication, seemed so
wholly gratuitous aimd unjust that I could not, when answering your
letter, omit some allusion to it.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
His Excellency JNO. A. ANDREW,
Governor of Massachusetts, l3oston

Page 347

347
OPERATIONS OF THE CRtIISERSUNJON.

Letter from the Governor of Massachusetts to the Secretary of the Navy, expressing regret at
any seeming injustice done the Department in previous correspondence in the affair of the
C. S. bark Tacony.

COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS,
Executive Department, Boston, July 16, 1863.
	Siu:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your commiini-
cation of the 11th instant, in reply to mine of the 1st. 1 should have
answered you at once, but have been prevented from doing so until
to-day by absorbing engagements arising from the outbreak here on
the 14th instant.
	I regret that any expression of mine should be regarded by you as
unjust, and as the statement in question is not at all material to the
snbstance of the letter I desire that it may be considered as withdrawn,
but with the explanation that it was made upon the authority of
mnnicipal officers and citizens of Gloucester, the shipping of which
town more than any other was affected by the Tacony, and that it was
based by them upon the assurances of their own shipmasters that, after
the Tacony first made her appearance in the neighborhood of the Vine-
yard Sound, four days passed, during which she burned numerous ves-
sels, before Federal cruisers made their appearance there in pursuit of
her. 1 am glad now to be able, on the authority of the Department, to
assure my inform ants that, during these four days, more than twenty ves-
sels of war, of which no less than fourteen were steamers, were engaged
in one direction or another in such pursuit. It was not at all my intention
to deny that any of these vessels had been sent out after the Tacony,
for as to that the sources of informnation were not opemi to me. What
I was, however, on the authority of intelligent shipmasters of Glouces-
ter, induced to believe and to say was that no such armed vessels were
sent along this coast for its protection until after the Tacony had swept
the Vineyard Sound. But any discussion on timis point is mmmatermaL
to the purpose of my letter of the 1st instant, it would be profitless
to continue it. I am glad to infer from your statement of the great
number of vessels -sent in pursuit of the Tacony that some of them
must have been chasing her near the Vineyard Sound during the four
days in question, in which she cal)tured amid burned the Gloucester fish-
ermen, and that therefore the Gloucester people were probably mistaken
in their statements to me, and I beg that my remark may be considered
as withdrawn.
	The purpose of mny letter of the 1st instant was to do my duty to
the State over which I preside, by urging upon the Navy Department
hereafter to guard against such raids as that of the Tacony by sta-
tioning armed vessels along this coast, and particularly within easy
reach of the Vineyard Sound. My fruitless request in that behalf last
February, at the time when the Alabama was rel)orted as in this neigh-
borhood, is perhaps withiu your recollection. 1 was then refused.
Later in the year the effort was renewed i)y me, and I was assured on
May 2 that, expressly for the protection of this coast, a fast cruiser
should be stationed here always prepared for service. If the knowl-
edge that cruisers are now along the coast is likely to prevent a repeti-
tion of such outrages as that of the Tacony, surely the same means, if
they had been seasonably adopted, would have deterred the Tacony
from appearing here at all. But I have no knowledge that during the
six weeks which passed between the date of May ~ and the date of the
appearance of the Tacon~q in Vineyard Sound, any fast cruiser was
placed here according to the Departments assurance on the former
date

Page 348

~48	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	Believe me, sir, that I am deeply sensible of the difficulties as well
as of the duties of the Navy Department. It is certainly a difficult
duty to guard the Northern coast in addition to blockading the South-
em coast, but certainly also the Department has the ability success-
fully to accomplish it aud to prevent the recurrence of a day when, for
fear of rebel cruisers, insurance shall be at the rate of 4~ per cent for
freight from Philadelphia to Boston.
	I beg iii conclusion to forward to you copies of communications I
have received from the selectmen of Provincetown while I have been
writing this letter, and I have the honor to remain,
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
Jorni A. ANDREW,
Governor of Massachusetts.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
&#38; cretary of the Navy.

[Enclosure.]

	The inhabitants of Provincetown are extremely anxious for a vessel
to be sent to Provincetown for the protection of that harbor, as it is
very much exposed to rebel invasion, they having already threatened
to burn the lown. It being at the extreme elm(l of Cape Cod, the harbor
is large and commodious, easy of access, sufficient depth of water for
any vessel; co imsequently, it at times has 300 or 400 sail of vessels
there at one time; and should a l)irate or privateer enter he could
destroy the shipping, village, the Race light, [Long] Point light, and
highland light, as we have n~ meamis of defense whatever. Our liai-
bor is generally known, as there are many fishermen belongimig to
British provinces sailing from our town, and have ~)revionsly sailed
from there, who may now be on board of those piratical vessels already
to pilot them in. They have an inducement to do so, as we have a
steam packet plying between Provincetown and Boston; also a bauk
from which they might demand $200,000, more or less.
	We therefore pray some vessel of sufficient capacity to repel any
rebel invasion may be sent to onr harbor as early as possmbl~ to give
us protection, until some other means are adopted for our protection,
by fortification or otherwise. And not only ours, but for the numerous
vessels seeking shelter in that harbor from other places. Time harbor
is considered to be the key of Massachusetts Ba
in the United States.	y, and one of the best
	We also pray for 150 or 200 muskets, with the necessary cqnipmemit,
that we may be prepared to meet any equal foe that may attempt to
land on the back of our town; also two artillery pieces on carriages
and ammunition sufficient for the same.
JOHN NICKERSON,
ROBERT SOPER,
Committee from Provineetown.

Report of Acting Master Seyburn, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. Schooner Kittatinny, of

cruise in search of the C. S. bark Tacony.

U.	S. SChOONER KITTATINNY, July 2.9, 1863.

	SIR: In accordance to orders from tile Department by telegram,
dated the 14th of June, and from Admiial Paulding in detail, dated
the 15th, that I proceed to sea and cruise to the eastward in search of
the pirate Tacony, examining all vessels from the eastward, keepin

Page 349

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	349

on as far as the Banks of Newfoundland, I kept in the track of home-
ward-bound vessels, between the inner edge of the G~~lt; and a safe
distance front the land, by steering zigzag courses t~ the N. B. and S. E.,
speaking several vessels and overhauling a good iiumber, until I
reached the Banks of Newfoundland, as directed. Not being able to
obtain any information there, as a thick fog prevailed for the two days,
and there being danger of collision, I stood to the S. B,
	On the morning of the 7th of July 1 boarded the brig Albertra, from
New York, bound to Cadiz, who gave me information of a three-masted
pirate, schooner rigged, and in the neighb9rhood of the Nantucket
Shoals, and was last seen steering E. S. Th I kept off at once to the
W.	N. W. in hope of falling in with her.
	While off New York seeking information of the pirates, I learned of
the destruction of the pirate Tacony from the schooner Robt. P. King,
and judging my services might be more required in some other quarter
I returned for further orders from the Department.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ISAAC D. SEYBURN,
Acting Master, Cornm~~ding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander Clitz U S Navy, commanding U. S. S. Juniata,
of the seizure by that vessel of the English schooner Elizabeth.

U. S. S. JUNIATA,
Off the Island of Cuba, June 14, 18G3.
	SIR:	I have to inform you that at 6 p. in., when in latitude 23~ 16 N.,
longitude 83~ 9 W., that I fell in with and took possession of the
English schooner Elizabeth, W. II. Croscup, master, of D igby, Nova
Scotia. The Sai(l Elizabeth cleared from Matamoras, Mexico, on April
7, 1863, for New York. The master of the schooner says that he was
run into by an American man-of-war amid was compelled to return to
Matamoras. He again, according to his account, sailed from Matamoras
on the 23d of May, but has no clearances except those of April 7. He
has also a bill of health from the American consul dated April 7, 1863,
and none other, and in this bill of health, it distinctly states she has no
passengers. She is in ballast, with boards laid to carry cotton, and par-
ticles of that article have been found in her Imold. She has a person on
board who claims to be a passenger and an American citizen. There
is nothing to show that he is a passenger, nor has he a protection of any
kimid. in his trunk were found several hundred dollars imm gold. In the
shipping articles the master is put down as W. H. Croscup. In the cer-
tificate of her Britannic IMajestys vice-consul at Matainoras he speaks
of the master of the schooner Elizabeth as Ezekiel Croscup, arid to the
signatures, etc., of witnesses, the name or names are not written out in
full; they are simply signed J. F, H. II., all in the same handwriting.
By the log book of the Elizabeth it appears that she sailed from Mata-
moras on May 27 1863 and also from time to time that he was
	~,	taking
on board cotton or making his arrangements to do so. There was also
found on board a bill for a chronometer, dated Havana, April 18, 1863,
and also the rate for one, dated Matauzas, April 21, 1863. But these
bills are not made out in the name of the master or the schooner Eliz-
abeth~ Under all these circumstances I felt it my duty to take posses

Page 350

350	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

sion of her. I send her to the port of Key West in charge of Actiiig
Master D. G. Tayler and a prize crew consisting of 1 seaman and 3
landsmen.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
J.	M. B. CLITZ,
Commander.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHAS. WILKES,
Flagship Yanderbilt, Commanding West India Squadron.


Letter front the U. S. consul at Ponce, Puerto Rico, to the Secretary of the
Navy, reporting the chase by a Confederate brig of the bark Lvening
Star, of New Haven, Coun.
CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Ponce, Puerto Rico, June 15, 18G3.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge receil)t of dispatch from the
Navy Department dated April 9, and have paid due attention to the
contents.
	As United States vessels of war rarely call at Ponce, I have sent a
certified copy of said dispatch to St. Thomas, with $20 in Treasury
notes (having disposed of one note of $10) to exchange the same there
for gold.
	The bark Evening Star, of New Uavei, Captain Mansfield, which
arrived at Arroyo, in this island, on the list instant, reports having been
chased for six hours by a hermaphrodite brig* in about latitude 25~,
longitude ~34O~ The brig when first seen bad American colors hoisted
in signal of distress. Finding that Captain Mansfield did not approach
her, the brig stood up under her lee, and during her chase foii six
hours flied six round shot and one shell, but fortunately none hit the
bark. Finding she was losing ground, the brig gave up the chase and
stood for another vessel which hove in sight.
	Captain Mansfield describes the brig as rather long, l)ainted black,
steamboat bow, and billet-head; thinks by the look of the rigging, etc.,
that the brig must have been fitted out at sea.
	I have advised our consul at St. Thomas of the above-mentioned
occurrences.
I have the honor to be, with much respect, your obedient servant,
J.	C. GALLAHER,
U.	S. Consul.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, P. C.


Letter front the president of the Pacific Mail Steamship Company to the
Assistant Secretary of the Navy, transmitting letter from Aspinwall,
New Granada, containing news of a Confederate vessel ofl~ Cape Horn.
PACIFIC MAIL STEAMSHIP COMPANY,
New York, June 15, 1863.
	DEAR SIR: I beg leave to hand you herewith copy of a letter received
from the Isthmus by the Ocean Queen for your information.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ALLAN MOLANE.
Hon. G. V. Fox,
Assistant Secretary of the Navy, Washington, P. C.

Probably the C. S. brig Clarence

Page 351

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	351

[Enclosure.]
ASPINWALL, June 6, 1863.
	M~ DEAR SIR: The Valparaiso arrived from the South Pacific this
morning. Mr. Cleenian telegraphs the following as part of the news
brought by her:

	Captain of American ship Ceo. Green, arrived at Caflao, reports a ship on fire off
Cape Horn. Captain Leach was preparing to give assistance when he perceived a
steamer, hearing the Confederate flag, bearing down on him. Another large Ameri-
can ship having hove in sight, the ateasner pnrsued her, thereby leaving Captain
Leach to make his escape. This is oniy a report, no affidavits having been asked
from captain or crew.

	This may be the Florida. The South Americait States were friendly
to us. The Government of Chile may refuse her coal. We have no
ship but the Lancaster in service in the Pacific that is equal to the
Florida. The Saranac is at Mare Island, broken down. If it is the
Florida, what is to prevent her taking the steamers of the Pacific
Mail Company ~
	Her main object in coming to the Pacific probably is to get the gold
carried by those steamers. The Narragansett would be of but little use
as a convoy. The Wyoming has beeu sent to the East India Station.
After all, it may be only a scare, but the probabilities are that the
report is true and that the steamer is the Florida.
Yours, truly,
G.	M. TOTTEN.

	DAVID HoAiDLEY, Esq.




Report of Commander Trenchard, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Rhode
Island, of cruise for the interception of blockade runners.

U.	S. S. J~HODE ISLAND,
Cape illaitien, June 16, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that in accordaiice with your instruc-
tions* of the 15th [13th ~?] ultimo, the Rhode Island left Cape Haitien on
the 23d May and proceeded in the direction of Nassau, with the view
of intercepting the blockade runners.
	On May 28, when about 45 miles N. N. W. of Elbow Cay, we fell in
with the U. S. S. Chippewa, with whom we communicated.
	On the 30th ultimo we chased the Confederate steamer Margaret and
Jessie, a copy of my report* to the honorable Secretary of the Navy in
relation to which I enclose you herewith. Deeming it important that
our consul at Nassau should be in possession as early as possible of the
true facts of the case, I forwarded to him, via Stirrup Cay, a report in
substance the same as the enclosed.
	Hearing from a wrecking boat that tile Oreto was at Stirrup Cay, we
proceeded thither and found there the U. S. bark Restless, which no
(lonbt had been mistaken for the privateer. As we were both going in
the same direction, we towed the Restless as far as Great Isaac, causing
us thereby no detention, a~iid promoting the interest of the (Ioveru-
ment, by enabling the Restless to arrive at her destination several days
sooner than she otherwise would have done.
	Thence we proceeded round Matanilla Reef and cruised for some
days to the northward and eastward of Elbow Cay, falling in with the
Santiago de Cuba on the 8th instant, about 30 miles N. N. E. of Stranger
Cay. After cruising several days longer, the Santiago de Cuba being

Seep. 190

Page 352

352	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

some distance to the northward of us, finding our supply of coal to be
very nearly exhausted, we started for Cape ilaitien on the 13th instant,
to procure a fresh supply, leaving the Santiago de C4a to cruise off Abaco
as long as her coal might admit.
	On the 14th instant we stopped at Watling Island and found that
supplies of various kinds and at reasonable rates could be obtained
there, and the inhabitants friendly disposed to us and our Government,
arriving at Cape Jlaitieii this 16th instant.
	I enclose herewith a list of vessels boarded and spoken by this
steamer from May 23 up to our arrival at this place, weekly accounts
of coal expended, received on board, an(l remaining on hand from pre-
vious report up to June 11.
STEPHEN Ii. TRENCHARD,

Commander.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHARLES WILKES,
Commanding West India Squadron.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, regarding the detention of the U. S. S. Oneida from
her station.
FLAG-STEAMER ALABAMA,
St. Thomas, June 16, 1863.
	SIR: I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 8th of
May, just received, to know [asking ~ why the Oneida had not yet
returned to her station. In my letter of the 2d April, I wrote that I
intended to return the Oneida as soon as she had performed the impor-
taut service she was theii on. The I)epartmeut suggested that I might
send another vessel in hei- place. This I found I should have to do,
and designated the Sonoma, but shortly afterwards your orders were
receive(l to send her to New York for repairs. The Alabama was cruis
ing with the Oneida. She also broke down and has been undergoiiig
repairs for sonic five weeks, and I was therefore compelled to retain the
Oneida until such time as I could send another vessel from to leeward
to relieve her. The loss of the Shepherd Knapp has caused another
interference with my plans.
1 am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ChARLES WILKES,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES, Secretary of the Navy.


Letter from Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, to the Secretary of the Navy, transmitting copy of
orders for cruising to Commander Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. S. Vanderbilt.
FLAG-STEAMER ALABAMA,
St. Thomas, June 16, 1863.
	SIR: For the information of the IDepartmnent, I herewith enclose a
copy of my orders to the Vanderbilt, which vessel sailed from here on
the 13th instant.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES, Secretary of the Navy

Page 353

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	353

[Enclosure.]

FLAG-STEAMER VANDERBILT,
St. Tho~Ttas, June 12, 1863.
	Siu I have hitherto been impressed with the belief, which has been
warranted by all the information I have received since being on this
station, that the rebel piratical cruisers would resort to these (Wind-
ward) islands, as they have (lone heretofore, and have acted accord-
ingly in retaining the services of the Vanderbilt, an(l hold myself
accountable to the Department for so doing, my force being inadequate
to effect their capture without her assistance, and that another escape
of these pirates from the islands to which they have resorted would be
a grent disappointment. I still indulge the belief that sooner or later
one or the other of the rebel cruisers will make their appearance here,
but from information received since our arrival heme, which I deem
reliable, respecting the Alabama or other rebel cruisers being now in
the neighborhood of Cape St. [San] Roque and the island of Fernando
de Noronlia, on the coast of Brazil, I deem it advisable that you should
make all speed to reach that vicinity.
	You will require all the coal you can stow for the cruise. You are
nearly filled up. When ready, you will l)roceed to Pointe ii Pitre,
Guadelonpe, where you will fill up. After doing so, touch at Barba-
dos, where you may obtain important information, which island is
nearly in your route.
	Your orders* from the Department to search for the rebel pirates
everywhere are so complete that I scarcely consider it necessary to write
you any, but. think a few observations will do no harm, if they may
not assist you in this cruise. On the route which ves~-els usually follow
on their return voyage home from the South Atlantic, the rebel pirates
will most likely be found. Our vessels endeavor to cross the equator
between 330 and 360 W., and thence on a direct line to~vard Bermuda,
from 150 to 200 miles to the north of this island. They sometimes pass
to the westward of Fernando de Noronha and between it and the cal)e,
but many fear the IRocas, lying about 45 miles to the westward, which is
a low and dangerous coral reef. The sand island on it caii be seen but
a few miles. ln running to the eastward on this route you will, iii all
probability, meet some vessels and may receive some information from
them of the rebel pirates. In this event, your own judgment will guide
you. The currents will be against you; off Fernando de Noronha and
Cape San lioque they are reported very strong, but two years since, at
this time of the year, I was off there for several days, and I had very
little, if any. You may pass the cape quite close; the soundings will
be your guide; if you have current it will be to the westward before
making the cape; after passing it, it will be to the southward and
westward. Coal will be your great want, for without it you can effect
but little. There are some places where it may be obtained. Your
supply, after leaving Pointe ~ Pitre, will enable you to steam some 5,00()
or 6,000 miles. The ports to the north of Rio de Janeiro are Cayenne,
Maranham, Surimiam, Para, Pernambuco, Santos, Bahia, and l)erhal)s
at Rio Grande. The Sumter coaled at Surinam. To some of the above
l)orts steamers go. The winds off the cape and under tIme equator at
this season of the year are from the S. S. E. to E. S. B., a mid at times
fresh, but I think you will have a smooth sea.
	It is reported that the rebels intend to coal at Santos, where, it is
said, they have sent a coal vessel.

~See p. 60.
	NWRVOLII	23.

Page 354

354	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	At Fernando de Noronha you will ascertain what truth there is in
the report of the Alabama having been received there. This informa-
tion will be desirable for the Government.
	The duration and extent of your cruise will be 1~eft to your judgment.
On returning, you will repair to New York, and your nearest and best
route is to touch at St. Yincent, Cape Yerde [Islands], where coal is
always to be obtained, but should you deem it advisable to return this
way you will find coal at Pointe ~ Pitre or St. Thomas, or, failing in
these, at San Juan, Puerto iRico, and perhaps at Cape Haitien Harbor.
I need only add that you have my best wishes for your success in fall-
ing in with the pirates, for I am satisfied you will give a good account
of yourself.
	Wishing you a pleasant time,
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[CHARLES WILKES,]
Commanding West In(lia Squadron.
	Commander C. H. BALDWIN, U. S. Navy,
Commanding Steamer Vanderbilt.


Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner,
U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, notifying him of the
appearance of the C. S. vessels Clarence and Tacony off the Atlantic
Coast.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 17, 1863.
	SIR: I de,em it proper t~ inform you that a rebel privateer, the brig
Clarence, a prize to the Florida, has appeared off the capes of Virginia
and has committed several outrages upoi~ our commerce.
	On the 12th instant, nearly in sight of Cape Henry, she captured the
bark Tacony, of Philadelphia, and took her in place of the Clarence,
which they destroyed. The same day the schooner iLL. A. Shindler was
burned and the schooner Kate Stewart was ransomed for $7,000. Pre-
vious to this, on the 6th of June, the Clarence, or Coquette, ~as she was
called, captured and burned, in latitude 330 38 N., longitude 710 29 W.,
the bark Whistling Wind, on the way from Philadelphia to New Orleans
and loaded with coal shipped by this Department.
	The captain of the Whistling Wind states that he learned from per-
sons on board the Clarence that the Florida had armed two or three
other vessels, which were then cruising in that vicinity, where they
were to meet the Florida and the steam privateer J. C. Calhoun.
	The Tacony is commanded by C. XV. Read, formerly a midshipman in
the U. S. Navy.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary ~f the Navy.
	Acting Rear-Admiral J. L. LAUDNER,
Commanding West India Squadron, Havana, Cuba.


Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Captain Phillips, late com-
manding ship Dictator, requesting description of C. S. S. Georgia, by
which the forme. - vessel was captured and burned.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 17, 1863.
	SIR: Will you be kind enough to furnish the Department with a
description, as far as you are able, of the rebel steamer Georgia, whic

Page 355

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	355

captured and burned the ship Dictator, under your command~ It is
thought she is the Japan, or Virginia, which sailed from England about
the 10th of April last. But the Virginia is said tq be a screw steamer
of 500 to 700 tons, clipper-built, fiddle-bow figurehead, short, thick
funnel, and a new vessel, with an armament of five guns. This does
not correspond with the description that has been given of the Georgia.
	Any information that you may be able to give as to the names of her
officers, the number of her crew, etc., would also be gladly received.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES.
Secretary of thc Navy.
Captain PHILLIPs,

Late Captain of Ship Dictator, New York.



Letter from George ilL Phillips, late commanding ship Dictator, to the
Secretary of the Navy, giving description of the C. S. S. Georgia.

BOSTON, June 28, 1863.
	SIR: I am in receipt of yours of 17th instant, requesting me to fur-
nish the Department with the description of the vessel that captured
the ship Dictator. This steamer sailed from England about the 8th of
April under the name of Japan, the same name being on her bows when
she captured~my ship, but they call her the Georgia. She is a common
iron scrcw steamer, 4~00 to 70o tons, clipper-built, fiddle head, fall poop,
brig rigged, short, thick funnel, and a new vessel, with an armament of
five guns. Her crew consists of about 15 officers and 70 meit. All of the
crew and some of the officers are English. I here give the names of the
Americans on board: The commander, Maury; First Lieutenant Chap-
man, Second Lieutenant Evans, Sailing Master Ingraham, Midshipmen
Morgan and Walker. All the rest are English and Scotch.
	It was impossible for me to ascertain anything more about this ves-
sel, as they forbid me to leave the quarter-deck or to hold any inter-
course with anyone on board.
I am, your obedient servant,
	GEORGE N. PHILLIPS,
	-	Late of Ship Dictator.
GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of Navy.



Letter from the Assistant Secretary of the Navy to the president of the
Pacific Miail Steamship Company regarding protection against Coi~fed-
erate cruisers in the Pacific.

NAvY DEPARTMENT, June 18, 1863.

	SIR: I have your letter of the 15th instant and its euclosure.*
	It is very important that dates should be given, as on the 20th of
May, by dispatches from the Mohican at Pernambuco, the whole of the
* See pp. ~5O, 3~l

Page 356

356	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

pirates, three in number, were at Babia. Tn reference to the remarks
of General Totten about the vessels of the Pacific Squadron, J WoUld
say that the Saranae is not broken down and there are five vessels in
the Pacific, either one of which is more than a match for all three of the
pirates. The fatal mistake is the detention of the Vanderbilt by Acting
Rear-Admiral Wilkes, contrary to her or(lers, which were for her to go
to Fernando de Koronha and the coast of Brazil.
Very respectfiuly, etc.,
G.	V. Fox,
Assistant Secretary of the Navy.
ALLAN iVICLANE, Esq.,
New York.



Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner,
bT. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, urging the capture of
steamer Gibraltar, late C. S. S. Sumter.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 18, 1863.
	SIR:	I transmit herewith extracts* from consular dispatches in refer.
ence to Suspicious vessels. Your particular attention is called to the
statements regarding the steamer Sumter, now Gibraltar. This vessel
should be captured wherever fallen in with on the high seas, or without
neutral .j uri~diction.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Acting Rear-Admiral J. L. LARDNER,
Commanding West India Squadron, Havana, Cuba.



Letter.from Messrs. Nesmith &#38; Sons to the Secretary 9/ the Navy, urging
the importance of protection to American commerce off the coast of
Brazil.

NEW YORK, June 18, 1863.
	Sin:	We have ships bound to and from the Pacific and Indian oceans
crossing the track infested by the pirates now rendezvousing on the
coast of Brazil. In consequence of their (lepredations the pieinium for
war ri~k on those voyages has risen from 1~ p~i~ cent to 7~ to 10 per
cent rates, which, with the ordinary rate for marine risks, the business
cai~ not afford, and will result in driving American commerce from those
waters and throwing it entirely into the hands of our foreign rivals
unless the pirates can be captured or driven ofL
Yours, respectfully,
NESMITH &#38; SONS.

Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
* Not foun

Page 357

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	357

Letter from Messrs. Sprague, Soule &#38; Co. to the Secretary of the Navy,
requesting that their steamers Saxon and Norman be furnished with
armament as a protection against Confederate cr~sers.

BOSTON, June 18, 1863.
	SIR:	We are agents and part o wners of the screw steamers Saxon
and Norman, running weekly between this port and Philadelphia. It
has occurred to us that it would be a protection to our steamers against
the rirates on the coast, as well as a public advantage, to have eacli
vessel armed with two rifle guns. As it would be of no advantage to
us to have this armament, except temporarily while the (langer lasts,
we do not like to be at the expense of purchasing it, and would there-
fore ask you if you could furnish us with it, either in Philadelphia or
Boston, to be returned when you shall direct.
We are, very respectfully, your obedient serv.ants,
SPRAGUE, SOULE &#38; Co.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to the commandant navy yard,
Philadelphia, relative to U. S. S. Saratoga.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 19, 1863.
	SIR:	Yout letter of the 17th ii~staiit has been received. The i)epart-
ment approves of your suggestion for the preparation of the Saratoga,
and she had better be sent to the [Delawarel Breakwater as early as
practicable. Officers will be immediately detailed, and instructions
have been given for men to be transferred from New York to Phila-
deiphia.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy.
	Commodore C. K. STRIBLING,
Commandant Navy Yard, Philadelphia.



Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Mohican, enjoining a continued search for Confed-
erate cruisers.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 20, 1863.
	SIR:	I have received your dispatches reporting your movements in
pursuit of the rebel privateers.
	The Department is glad to perceive that you availed yourself of the
first information of the rebel steamers being in reach to pursue them,
and is pleased with the earnestness that appears to actuate you. You
will continue to follow them wherever they may go.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy.
Captain 0. 5. GLISSON,
Commanding U. S. S. ]1fohican, Bahia, Brazil

Page 358

353	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of his having relieved Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes,
U. S. Navy, at St. Thomas, West Indies.

U.	S. S. TICONDEROGA,
St. Thomas [West Indies], June 20, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report my arrival here on the 17th instant,
and to inform the Department that I have this evening relieved Acting
Bear-Admiral Wilkes and assumed the command of the squadron.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	L. LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West india Squadron.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes, U. S. Navy, late commanding
West India Squadron, of the transfer of command, transmitting copy
of information and plan of operations furnished to Acting Rear-
Admiral Jiarduer, U. S. Navy.

U.	S. S. ALABAMA,
Off St. Thomas [West indies], June 20, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform the Department that, agreeably to
its order, I transferred the command of the West India Squadrou to
Commodoro James L. Lardner this day at 6:30 p. in., being at the time
in the harbor of St. Thomas, and in so doing furnished him a letter, of
which the enclosed is a copy.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	-	CHARLES WILKES,
		 Acting Rear-Admiral.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
[Enclosure.]

FLAG-STEAMER ALABAMA,
St. Thomas [West Indies], June 20, 1863.
	SIR:	In transferring the command of the West India Squadron to
you, in obedience to an order from the Navy Department, I transmit
for your information a list* of vessels engaged, or supposed to be
engaged, in contraband trade, together with sundry communications
recently received from the Department, enclosing extracts from consu-
lar dispatches relative to contraband traders.
	I also transmit a communication from the Bnreau of Equipment and
Recruiting in relation to coal for the squadron. Also a commnummication
from Bear-Admiral Farragut and a letter from Captain Emmons in
regard to the Oneida, which vessel the Department, in a communica-
tioim dated March 6, ordered to return to her station. She is now cruis-
ing among the Windward Islands. A copy of her orders is herewith
enclosed.
	I also transmit a special warrant in relation to the suppression of the
African slave trade, issued by the Department, and English and l)an-
ish treaties. Also a number of printed copies of circulars and general

* Enclosures not found

Page 359

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	359

orders from the Department, copies of which have been distributed
to the squadron. I also turn over a set of charts of the island of Cuba.
Also a number of copies of the annual report of ~he Secretary of the
Navy, recently received, to be distributed among the squadron. The
Vanderbilt, Alabama and Gemsbok have been supplied. I also transmit
a letter from the governor of Martinique.
	I have to inform you that the vessels of the squadron are disposed of
as follows:
	The Tioga, Commander A. G. Clary, and Octorara, Commander N.
Collins, are (letailed to cruise in the North West Providence Channel
and about the Bahama Banks. They coal and get provisions at Key
West.
	The Rhode Island, Commander S. D. Trenchard, and Santiago de
Cuba, Commander It. H. Wyman, cruise in the Windward Passage and
to the north on the offshore ground to the eastward of Abaco. They
coal and provision at Cape Haitien.
	The Juniata, Commander [J.] M.B. Clitz,is cruisingoff The Havannah,
between Cardenas and Bahia Honda. She coals and provisions at
Havana and Key West.
	The ]tliercedita, Commander G. M. Ransom, is engaged to convoy the
California steamers. She may coal at Cape Haitien.
	The National Guard is employed as a coal and provision vessel at
Cape Haitien Harbor.
	The Gemsbok, Acting Master 0. Thacher, is employed as a coal and
provision vessel at this port.
	The Shepherd Knapp, Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Commanding
H. S. Eytinge, is lost.
	The Sonoma, Commander T. H. Stevens, and the Wachusett, Lieuten-
ant-Commander C. E. Fleming, have gone home.
	There is coal for the squadron, belonging to the Government, at the
following places. At Cura~ao, about 1,600 tons; expected 1,000 tons
more. At Pointe ~ Pitre, Guadeloupe, 1,300 tons, minus the quantity
recently taken by the Oneida and the Vanderbilt, say about 350 tons.
At Havana, about 600 tons. On board the Gemsbok, at this place, 125
tons.
	I enclose statements of provisions and stores on hand. In this con-
nection I would state that coal may be obtained on purchase at St.
Jago [Santiago] de Cuba and Cienfuegos, south side of Cuba, and at
San Juan, north side of Puerto Rico.
	I have to inform you that I have approved of requisitions for $3,000
each for the Rhode Island and Santiago de Cuba. The money is on board
o(~ this vessel and will be placed in the hands of the respective pay-
masters on the Alabama meeting with them.
	The officers who came out in the Ticonderoga to join the squadron
have been ordered to duty on board of vessels of the squadron most in
need of them. The usual round of cruising of the vessels of the squad-
ron is from this port by way of the Windward Islands as far as Bar-
bados, Tobago, amid Trinidad, thence down the main to Cura~ao, looking
in at the different islands amid anchorages on that route, returning by
way of Martinique and Guadeloupe, coaling at Pointe a Pitre, of the
latter island.
	Martinique requires, in my opinion, more watching than any other, as
the rebel vessels have been and may be supplied there. The inhabit-
ants are very much disposed to aid them.
	Vessels bound here from to leeward pass on the north or south side
of San Domingo, through the Mona Passage, thence on the north o

Page 360

360	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

south side of Puerto Rico. From here westward they take the opposite
sides, looking into the various ports. Those in the Windward Passage
look in at the island of Jamaica.
	If bound farther to the westward they pass on the south side of Cuba,
touching at St. Jago [Santiago] de Cuba and Cienfuegos aud the island
of Grand Cayman; thence around Cape San Antonio to Havana or Key
West, or they pass through the OJd Bahama Channel to Havana and
Key West, examining the various islands and ports on the coast, look-
ing for slavers as well as cruisers; or else they pass among the islands to
the northward and through the North East Providence Channel, where
they cruise during the dark nights of the moon.
	All the vessels have good pilots. Those employed to the northward
frequently pass down the Tongue of the Ocean and over the banks to
the Old Bahama Channel. The Alabama has been employed cruising
among the Windward Islands in company with the Oneida.
	Perhaps it may 1)0 well to mention to you iii this place, although I
have done it verbally, the necessity I have found of keeping the ves-
sels cruising in pairs to support each other in the event of any rebels
being found in the ports, the better to blockade and insure their capture
or prevent their escape. The duties of the flagship have been to take
part, when occasion required, on any of the stations, and to visit them
as often as possible and the ports where information is to be obtained.
For this purpose it is necessary to have the fleetest vessel employed
and ready at all times for instant movement. Indeed, on her move-
ments principally depend the efficiency of the squadron. Great diffi-
culties have, had to be encountered in the discharge of my duties, which
I hope you will not experience.
	I enclose reports from Commanders Wyman and Collimis in reference
to the boilers of their respective vessels.
	As respects provisions, clothing, and small stores, there has been
great difficulty in our being supplied, both in quantity and quality.
Those received at Key West, from whence we have drawn principally,
have been inferior, and oftentimes the provisions have had to be con-
demned. This especially refers to the flour, beef; and bread; besides, at
this port at times a suj)ply could not be obtained. Two small supplies
have been received by the National Guard, but totally inadequate to
our wants. I have addrossed the Department on this subject and
requested a supply to be sent to the National Guard at Cape Haitien,
deeming her the best depository for that purpose, as occupying a cen-
tral position.
	Provisions have been procured at St. Thomas an(l The Havannah,
and may be obtained in limited quantities at Pointe ~ Pitre amid
Cnra~ao, where may also be found some descriptions of small stores
required, but I view it as indispensable that the squadron should have
an independent supply.
	1 deem it proper to inform you that arrangements have been made
with all the consuls to forward to me by mail or other means as speedily
as possible any information in regard to the movements of rebel
cruisers or in reference to suspicious vessels.
	Havingnow furnished you with all the information I possess in rela-
lation to this service and the details of my operations, I have but to
wish you every success in carrying out the views of the Department.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES,
Acting Pear-Admiral, Commanding West india ~3quadron.
	Commodore J. L. LARDNER, U. S. Navy,
fVo Gommand the West India squadron

Page 361

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	36t

Report of Commander Wyman, U. S. Navy, commanding U. KS. S. 8an-
tiago de Cuba, of the capture by that vessel of the steamer Victory, of
Charleston, S. C.

U.	S. S. SANTIAGO DE CUBA,
At Sea, June 22, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that on the 21st instant, at 5 p.m., I
captured the steamer Victory, of Charleston, after a chase of five hours.
At the time of capture the vessels were in latitude 25~ 44 N., longitude
750 24 W., Palmetto Poiut, Eleuthera Island, being the nearest laud
and bearing S. W.~ W., 55 miles.
	Commencing the chase, the steamer was but just visible from aloft, to
the eastwar(I of this vessel and steering to the S. W. (hi discovering
us she changed her course to the eastward, aud as we approached withiu
range of our forward rifle gun to the northeastward, making every
elThrt to escape, burniug the resin which she had on board and throw-
ing overboard a portion of her deck load of cotton about 147 bales.
She showed no colors, and no papers were found on board (they hav-
ing been, as was stated, thrown ovemboard) excepting her commanders
appointment, a copy of which I herewith enclose. The original I for-
ward to the prize commissioners at Boston, Mass., where I have ordered
her to proceed, unless from stress of weather she may be obliged to
make a more southern port.
	The Victory was formerly the Cavolina (propeller), an iron boat abouu
600 tons, built at Wilmington, Del., in 1861. As far as 1 can ascertain,
she has now on boam-d about 875 bales of cotton, 1,000 1)ounds of
tobacco, an~ 30 barrels of turpentine. She was cleared from Wil-
mington, N. C., and sailed from there ou the 17th instant.
	The Victory had on board and was burning anthracite coal, obtained
from an American vessel at Nassau, New Providence. The name of
that vessel I have not been able to obtain.
	At the time of capture there were no United States vessels in sight.
Seventy-nine bales of the cotton thrown overboard from the Victory
were picked up by the U. S. gunboats Tioga and Octorara, about 12
or 15 miles to westward of the l)osition of capture. These have been
shipped in the Victory, by order of Commander Clary, for the benefit
of the salvors. I send this vessel to Boston, Mass., in charge of Acting
Master F. G. Prior, U. S. Navy, attached to this vessel.
1 am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
II.	H. WYMAN,
Commander, U. S. Navy, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Commander Gollins, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Octorara,
of the chase by that vessel, in company with U. S. S. Santiago de Cuba
and Tioga, of the steamer Victory, of Charleston, S. C.

U.	S. STEAMER OCTORARA,
Stirrup Cay, Bahamas, ~June 23 [22], 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that yesterday about noon we fell in
with the U. S. steamers Tioga amid Santiago de Cuba. About the same
time a sail, which proved to be the rebel steamer Victory, of Charleston,
was signaled by the former to the eastward, when the three vessel

Page 362

362	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

started in chase, the Santiago de Cuba leading, she being the fastest.
About 3 p. in., in latitude about 250 44 N., long4ude 750 52 W., we
saw floating in the water a quantity of cotton, and as the straige
steamer was iu sight only from the masthead, and as we were not gain-
ingouher, we gave up the chase and succeeded in saving ~ bales of
upland and 3 bales sea-island cotton.
	The Santiago de Cuba kept up the pursuit, and about 5 p. m. cap.
tured her.
	I send the cotton to Boston in the Victory for adjudication.
Jam, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
N.	COLLINS,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Commander Clary, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tioga. of
the shipping of cotton for adjudication by the captured steamer Victory.

U.	S. GUNBOAT TIO~A,
At Sea, Lat. 250 40 N., Long. 760 W., June 21, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you that, while in company with U. S.
steamers Santiago-dc Cuba and Octorara at this date, made a strange
steamer at noon to the eastward and all gave chase. At 3:30 p. in.
saw a large quantity of cotton afloat, and the Santiago de Cuba ahead
out of signal distance and likely to overhaul the chase, hove to in coin-
pany with the Octorara and picked up 37~ bales or parcels of cotton.
	The following day, the Santiago de Cuba returiuing in charge of the
English steamer Victory, shipped the cotton on board of her for Boston
for adjudication, enclosing our prize-crew list for the same.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	A. G. CLARY,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Captain Price, U. S. Navy, c6mmanding U. S. ship Jamestown,
of intended departure for Japan for the protection of American inter-
ests there.

U.	S. SHIP JAMESTOWN,
]Ifacao [China], June 22, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform the I)epartment of the arrival here
of this ship on the 2d instant. Since, we have been occupied in refit-
ting ship and getting provisions and stores wherever they were to be
had, the Government having nothing of the kind on hand here. Mr.
Speiden, the U. S. naval storekeeper at llongkong, has furnished most
of the articles required by purchase.
	The ship will be ready for sea in a few days, when I shall proceed
north as far as Shanghai, and from thence to Japan, unless intelligence
of a more peaceful character is received. The American ministers
house there was burned some weeks since, and most of the foreigners had
left or were preparing to do so, particularly families. The Wyoming. at
last accounts, was there

Page 363

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	363-


	I have heard recently, through the U. S. consul at Calcutta, that the
tebel vessel Roberta loaded with rice at Akyab, about the 4th April
last, for some port in Europe. I have heard of ~o other rebel vessel
east of the Cape of Good Hope. I enquired after this vessel, the
Roberta, when I touched at the cape in March, and since threugh the
Java aud China seas. If I had had a steamer eveu to have dispatched
in quest of her it would have been too late, as she left Akyab before
the news reached me, and this ship could not have reached there under
two months, at least, with the southwest monsoon prevailing. In fact,
a sailing vessel is most inappropriate as a cruiser in these seas.
	Lieutenant-Commander Campbell is on shore at this place and too
weak to attempt the route homeward by the Isthmus. The snrgeon
thinks he will live but a short time anywhere. The remainder of the
officers and crew are in general good health.
	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of my commission as
captain, and thank the Government for this mark of its consideration.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CICERO PRICE,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Report of Commander Preble, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. skip St.
Louis, of intended departure from Lisbon, Portugal.

U.	S. SLOOP OF WAR ST. LOUIS,
Lisbon, June 22, 1863.
	SIR: The ship is now ready for sea, and I intend sailing to-morrow
for Gibraltar and a cruise among the islands to which I am limited by
your instructions.
	I have requested the consul, in the absence of our minister, Mr. Har-
vey, to forward to Madeira any communications that may be addressed
to me until the 15th of next month, and after that, until the 1st of Sep.
tember, to Fayal.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEO. HENRY PREBLE,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commander ]VfcDougai, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Wyoming, of the possibility of war between England and Japan.

U.	S. S. WYOMING,
Yokohama fJapan~, June 22, 1863. (Via Marseilles.)
	SIR: I regret to have to inform you of the very sudden and unex-
pected turn of affairs between the English and Japanese, the result
of which will be war unless the latter recede from their present deter-
mination.
	On the 15th negotiations had progressed favorably toward an ami-
cable settlement of the demands, the Japanese agreeing to pay the
indemnity, and signed a paper to that effect. Two days subsequentl

Page 364

364	OPERATIONS 01? THE CRUISERSUNION.

a minister arrived from Yeddo [Tokio] with the unlooked for intelligence
that his Governineiit repudiated what had been done arid positively
refused the payment of the demand.
	The English minister has now placed the affair in the hands of the
admiral for settlement.
	Yesterday the admiral addressed a communication to the British con-
sul, to be communicated to British residents (a copy of which was fur-
nished General Pruyn and Consul Fisher), stating that in eight days,
yesterday included, he would commence coercive measures unless the
demand of his Government were complied with, and that, as he had
not a sufficient force for the occupation and protection of Yokohama,
he advised the immediate embarkation of the families of the British as
well as other foreign residents.
	Last evening General Pruyn had an interview with the governor of
Yokohama, in which he confessed that he had received an order from
the Tycoon to expel all foreigners and that orders to that effect had
been sent to the other treaty ports. He had been in receipt of the
order ten days, amid [it] was to be carried into effect in thirty (lays. As
he had not the power to enforce that order here, he would aftbrd all the
protection in his power to the residents of the place, with a hope the
order would be rescinded. He stated that the Tycoon was in a very
dangerous position at Miako [Kioto], but that once away from there
matters would be changed for the better. The governor would leave
today for Yeddo [Tokio] with a hope of inducing the payment of the
money and an amicable settlement of present difficulties.
	To-morrow, it has been announced, the regent will pass the Tai-
cado [Saikaidd] on his way to Yeddo [Tokio]. Possibly when he sees
the threatening state of affairs [he] may recede from their present
determination.
	I have made all the necessary arrangements in my power in case of
hostilities for the protection of our countrymen, and will embark them
on the first intimation of immediate danger.
	There is an American schooner to sail on the 25th for San Francisco,
by which I will write. This I forward by II. B. M. S. Centaur to
Shanghai.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
D.	MODOUGAL,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, IVashington, D. C.



Report of Acting Ensign ]Jifacy, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Mer.
cedita, (9~ vessels boarded by that ship from May 9 to 31, 1863.

U.	S. S. MERCEDITA,
Cape Haitien Harbor, June 23, 1863.
	SIR: The following is a complete list of the vessels boarded by this
ship and all the proceedings had thereon from the time of leaving
Boston, Mass., May 9, 1863, to May 31, inclusive:
	May 13.Latitude 31~ 59 N., longitude 710 9 W.: American bark
G. W. Horton, 0. Sleeper, master, of Bockland, Me., from New York
for Aspinwall; papers found correct.
	May 18.Latitude 22~ 31 N., longitude 730 5 W.: English her-
maphrodite brig Volant, of Bridgeport, Nova Scotia, Lyons, master

Page 365

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	365

from Guantanarno, Cuba, for Boston; papers found correct. Latitude
220 28 N., longitude 730 17 W.: American steamship Northern Light,
Tinklepaugh, master, from New York for Aspinwa~ convoyed her as
far as Navassa Island.
	May 27.Latitude 210 42 N., longitude 720 35 W.: English bark
Helen Augusta, of Turks Island, Os car Cutts, master, from Port an
Prince for New York; papers examined and found correct.
	May 28.Latitude 22~ 26 N., longitude 730 15 W.: American steam-
ship Ocean Queen, Wilson, in aster, from New York for Aspinwall; con-
voyed her as far as Navassa Island.
	May 30.Latitude 180 54 N., longitude 720 45 W.: American her-
maphrodite brig R. W. Packer, S. NI. Studley, master, of and from
Boston for Port au Prince; papers examined aud found correct.
	Respectfully submitted.
HENRY G. MACY,
	Acting Ensign, in charge of Masters Department.
Commander GEO. NI. RANSOM, U. S. Navy.


Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Mohican,
of preparations for departure from Bahia, Brazil.

U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Bahia [l3razil], June 23, 1863.
	SIR: I shall sail for Cearmi and As Rocas as soon as I can get my
coal in and d~ some necessary repairs on the engines, which will take
about a week to complete.
I am, very respectfully, etc.,
0.	5. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Commander Wyman, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. San-
tiago de Cuba, relative to block-adc runncrs.

U.	S. S. SANTIAGO BE CUBA,
Off Little Stirrup Cay, Bahamas, June 24, 1863.
	SIR: I ascertained from persons on hoard the captured steamer Vic-
tory that a cargo of anthracite coal was taken to Nassau, New Provi-
(lence, by the American brig Glencoe, and that aii American schooner
was there at the same time loaded with coal.
	A few days before the sailing of the Victory the steamer Sirius sailed
from Charleston, S. C., with 15 Confederate naval officers, bound to
Nassau to join Raphael Semmes.
	Several of these blockade runners are commanded by Confederate
naval officers and are said to belong to the Govermanent. The only name
I can ascertain is that of the Giraffe, or B. B. Lec, commanded by John
Wilkinson, formerly of the U. S. Navy. There seenms no reason to sup-
pose that any of them are armed.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
R.	II. WYMAN,
Qommandina.

Uon. GIDEON WELLES,
$ceretar~y of the ATav

Page 366

3~36	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Larduer, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, relative to the movements of the vessels of his com-
mand.
FLAGSHIP TICONDEROGA
St. Thomas, West Indies, June 25, 1863.
	SIR: As Acting Rear-Admiral Wilkes sailed from this port imme-
diately after hauling down his flag from the Alabama on the 20th instant
I had only time, in a few words, to report the fact to the Department
and that I had assumed command of the squadron.
	The position of the different ships, as I was then informed, is as follows:
	The iVijercedita, Coinmauder Ransom, looking out for the California
ships between the islands of Mariguana and Navassa.
	The Tioga, Commander Clary, and the Octorara, Commander Collins,
are cruising in the North West Providence Channel and about the
Bahama Banks.
	The Rhode Island, Commander Trenchard, and the Santiago de Cuba,
Captain Greene [Commander Wyman], are in the Windward Passage
and to the north of Abaco.
	The Juniata, Commander Clitz, is off Havana and between Cardenas
and Bahia Honda.
	The Alabama, Commander Nichols, has gone to Havana.
	The Oneida, Lieutenant-Commander W. N. Allen, has been cruising
off the island of Martinique. I shall send her to the Mississippi as
soon as an order can be taken to her commander.
	I beg leave to suggest to the Department, referring to that part of
its instructions which directs, in case of the rebel cruisers leaving the
West Indies, two of the most powerful and swiftest of the steamers
should be sent after them, that these vessels are not well adapted to
visit a distant station; none of them are fast; their capacities for sail-
ing are very limited; several of their boilers are defective, and they are
unprovided with letters of credit for obtaining supplies. There is no
further reliable information concerning the rebel cruisers than that
they were last heard from on the coast of Brazil.
	The Danish authorities appear to have the best feelings for our Gov-
ernment. My visit to them was cordially received, and returned by the
governor on the following day.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	L. LARDNER,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES, Secretary of the Navy.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner,
U.	S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, regarding disposition
of prizes.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 25, 1863.
	SIR: On the 30th of March last the Department ordered Rear-
Admiral Wilkes to send, until otherwise instructed, all captured
steamers to Boston. This order is hereby revoked, and the previous
instructions to send a fair proportion of prizes to that port will be con-
sidered in force.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Acting Rear-Admiral JAMES L. LARDNER.
Qommanding West India Squadron, Hav~,na, Qub~

Page 367

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	367


Report of Commander Wyman, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. San-
tiago de Cuba, of the capture by that vessel of the steamer Britannia.

U.	S. S. SANTIMIG BE CUBA,
At Sea, Lat. 210 1 N., Long. 740 41 W., June 26, 1863.
	SIR: I have the lionor to report to the Department the capture of the
steamer Britannia by this vessel on June 25 in latitude 250 43 N., long-
itude 740 35 W, Palmetto Point, Eleuthera Jsland, bearing W. S. W.,
distant 90 miles.
	The Britannia sailed under the British flag from Charleston, S. 0.,
on the 21st instant, bound to Nassau, New Providence. At 5:30 a. m.
of the 25th instant, while convoying past Abaco the captured steamer
Victory, saw black smoke to the N. E.; chased immediately; the chase
continued until 7 p. in., we gaining slowly; at that time she was within
range of our rifle gun, and, the shot falling close around her, she
brought to.
	The Britannia is an iron side-wheel vessel of 371 tons gross measure-
ment, 275 tons registered (English measurement); she is 2 years old,
well built, and has a good marine engine; she draws about 8~ feet of
water, and ran from this vessel at the rate of about 9 to 10 miles an
hour against a strong wind and considerable sea. Should iron boats
be required by the Department, I judge she would make a very good
light gunboat.
	The papers connected with her present voyage, which is the third,
were all thrown overboard, excepting the invoice of cargo, which gave 422
bales of cotton, valued at $107,086.90; 91 bales of this was sea-island
cotton. A portion of the deck load was thrown overboard during the
chase, but, from having considerable private venture on board, I judge
that there remains in her at least 400 bales.
	I send the Britannia to the port of Boston, Mass., in charge of Acting
Master E. C. Merriman, U. S. Navy.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
II.	II. WYMAN,
Commander, U. S. Navy, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Letter from Commander Clitz, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Juniata, to the Secretary of the Navy, transmitting correspondence with
the U. S. vice-consul-general at Havana, Cuba, regarding territorial
jurisdiction.
U.	S. S. JUNIATA,
At Sea, June 26, 1863.
	SIR: I herewith enclose you a copy of a letter addressed by me to
Thomas Savage, esq., U. S. vice-consul-general of Cuba, and also his
reply.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
J.	M. B. CLITZ,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 368

368	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
[Enclosures.]

U.	S. S. JUNIATA,
Hav~na, June 16, 1863.
	SIR: Yesterday afternoon, when about 12 miles N. E. of Bahia Honda,
we were boarded by an officer from her Catholic Majestys frigate
Blanco. He was the bearer of a message from the commodore, to the
eft~ct that he had been instructed by his Excellency the governor of
Cuba to require that we should not at night approach nearer the laud
than 6 miles. To this I replied that according to the law of nations
territorial jurisdiction extended a marine league from the coast and no
farther.
	At a second visit, made shortly after, the officer repeated the above
requirement, but stated that the commodore would probably visit
Havana in a day or two, and might theii receive new instructions. Of
course I did not recognize any such authority, but with the assurance
that my movements should be in conformity with the law and usages
of nations, I continued to cruise as had been my previous custom.
	Prior to and after our communication the frigate remained in our
immediate vicinity, evidently for the purpose of watching our move-
ments.
	I make the above statement to enable you to take such action in the
matter as you may deem necessary.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
J.	M. B. CLITZ,
Commander.
	THOS. SAVAGE, Esq.,
Vice-6timsul.General, in charge of the Consulate, U. S.,
Havana, Cuba.


CONSULATE-GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES,
havana, June 25, 1863.
	SIR: On Monday, the 22d instant, I paid a visit to his Excellency
General Herrera, the present commander in chief of her Catholic Maj-
estys naval forces on this station, to congratulate him on his appointment
to this important command. In the course of the interview I mentioned
the subject of your letter to me of the 16th instant, viz, the message
sent to you on the afternoon of the preceding day by the commanding
officer of her Catholic Majestys frigate Blanco, that he had been
instrticted to require that you [our cruiser] should not at night approach
nearer the land than 6 miles. I understood his Excellency to say it
was a standing order from the Supreme Government at Madrid; but as
he was aware that the United States do not recognize over 3 miles of
territorial waters, he could not see how he could carry out that order
without risking a conflict, which he was not willing to do. The interview
was in all respects a pleasant one, leading me to believe that we need
apprehend no difficulty with the Spanish authorities on that score. It
would be well, in my opinion, to bring the subject to the attention of
our Government. I will do so by the first opportunity.
1 am, very respectfully and truly, your obedient servant,
THOS. SAVAGE,
Vice- Consul- General, in Charge.
	Commander J. M. B. GLITZ,
~Jommanding U. S. S. Juniata, Present

Page 369

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	369

[Endorsement.]

	The marine league is the limit of territorial j uri~sdiction that can be
recognized. While this can not be permitted to be extended, it will be
advisable not to give unnecessary offense in the matter.
W[ELLES].


Report of Gommander Clary, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tioga, of
the capture by that vessel of the British schooner Julia.

U.	S. S. TJOOJ~,
At Sea, Lat. 250 53 N., Long. 760 8 W., June 27, 1863.
	&#38; n: I have the homior to inform you of the capture of the English
registered schooner Julia, of 38 tons, James Gordon, master, of and for
Nassau, Bahamas, from Georgetown, S. C., United States. She has an
English crew list, a rebel manifest arid clearance, of date Jnne 12, a rebel
and English flag on board. I enclose herewith a letter found on board
addressed to a Mr. Merriman, Quartermasters Department, Washington,
D. C. The schooners cargo consists of 63~ bales cotton and bar-
rels resin. I send her to Key West for adjudication, in cuarge of Acting
Master A. B. Pierson. Accompanying this is the prize crew list.
	I take this opportunity to apprise the Department of the want of suc-
cess in our cruising for contraband steamers, having chased eleven in
five mouths, seven of these under very favorable circumstances, only
capturing two, compelling one to throw overboard his cargo~ and running
one upon th~ rocks, and left in charge of wreckers, with 1,000 bales
cotton.
	I can not hesitate to say that with a gunboat of 1 or 2 knots more
speed (ours being from 9 to 11k) I could have captured half this num-
ber, partly breaking up this trade or ruining the parties engaged in it.
I know their routes and haunts (have chased three within five days),
and could almost guarantee the capture of two per month.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, A. G. CLARY,

Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


~Order of the commandant navy yard, New York, to Commander Cooper,
U.	S. Navy, commanding chartered steamer Star of the South, to cruise
for the protection of commerce.

NAVY YARD, NEW XORK, June 28, 1863.
	rSIR: Proceed to sea with the Star of the South, under your command,
~and sail to the eastward inshore of the Gulf Stream, for the protection
of our commerce. Examine all vessels you fall in with, and be gov-
erned by the information you may receive. Illeturn to New York by
way of the sound in ten days if you shall not deem it necessary to cruise
longer.
Respectfully, your obedient servant.
H.	PAULDING,
Commandant.
	Commander G. H. COOPER,
Command ~nq Star of the South.
	N W RVOL ii	2

Page 370

370	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

1i~eport of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Nickels, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. ship Onward, transmitting extract from ~ahia newspaper con-
taining news of C. S. S. Florida.
U.	S. SHIP ONWARD,
Off Pernambuco, Brazil, June 28, 1863.
	SIR:	Enclosed please find an extract, translated from a Balija news-
paper, which I obtained before I left, giving the latest tidings of the
rebel cruiser Florida.
	I am now coming to anchor off this place for the purpose of obtain.
ing news by the French mail steamer due here from the south of the
operations of the Alabama and Georgia. Shall leave again as soon as
I get the news. I have shipped at Bahia three distressed seamen and
one ordinary seaman for one year. If my sick list should increase I
would not have men enough to man the batteries, and felt it my duty
to provide against such a contingency.
Very respectfully, yonr obedient servant,
J.	F. NICKELS,
	Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding U. S. Ship Onward.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES, Secretary Navy.
[Enclosure.]

Extract from the Journal de Bahia, 24th of June, 1863.
[Translation.]

CEARi.
	On the 13th instant, in the morning, the celebrated steamer Florida,
of the Confederate States of America, anchored in this port. It is the
same that in Pernambuco obtained from the president the term of
twenty-four hours, afterwards extended to four days, to receive coal
and repair her machinery. She carried the pennant of a vessel of war,
and, as we hear from private information given by her crew and the
newspapers, she is armed as a privateer, and has already burned twenty-
seven merchant vessels belonging to the Federal States of America. As
soon as the Florida anchored the first lieutenant, accompanied by an
interpreter, landed and went at once to the goverumemit palace, and iii
the name of the commander, J. N. Maffitt, asked permission of his
Excellency the president of the province to receive coal alone. His
Excellency declared to him that his demand should be made in writing;
that before any deliberation could be come to the steamer should have
no communication with the land. This interdiction was religiously
observed, the crew remaining on board, as well as the prisoners, who
were already in the boats to come on shore. The president, after hav-
ing consulted at once with the captain of the port and chief of police,
took all the precantions necessary in such cases. Later on the first
lieutenant returned to the palace with the written comumunication of
the commander, in which he simply declared that he wanted coal,
respectfully askiimg his Excellency the attention that neutral nations
have had toward the steamers of the Confederate States. His Excel-
lency the president of the province immediately resolved to consult
the U. S. consular agent ad interim, Mr. Richard Hughes, an English
subject, who officially declared that he did not know the flag of that
steamer, having therefore nothing to say in the matter. There being,
therefore, no motive opposed to the simple concession asked to receive
coal, the presidency resolved to give it only for that purpose. The Flor-
ida, on the following day after her arrival, left the port. It is not known
what became of her. While she stayed here nothing worth mentioning
occurred. Both the police and custom-house took every precaution to
prevent any violation of the laws of the country

Page 371

371
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. ilfohican,
ret ative to the movements and depredations of C. S. S. Florida.

U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Bahia [Brazil], June 29, 1863.
	SIR:	I have to report to the honorable Secretary of the Navy the
return of the U. S. S. ]lifohican to this port after a cruise of eighteen
days to the northward of this place and near the equator. On my
return I called at the island of Fernando de Noronha and also at Per-
nambuco for news. At the latter place 11 learned that the Florida had
gone to the northward. The probability is that the next news that we
have of her will be she is in the West Indies. We have no news of
the Alabama and Georgia since they left Bahia. The bark Lapwing
and brig Clarence have never entered any port on this coast. I shall
continue to cruise on this coast until further orders from the Depart-
ment, or until I can get information of them so as to go in chase. At
present we are all in the dark as to their movements.
	On my arrival at this port I found the U. S. ship Onward, Acting
Volunteer Lieutenant J. F. Nickels, put in for water. He arrived a
day or two after I left and just in time to prevent the English barks
Castor and Agrippina from going to sea, and. he kept so close a watch on
them that they have sold their cargoes and are nearly discharged. This
will prevent the rebel steamers getting coal at sea or at any of the out
of the way ports. There is no doubt that these two barks are tenders on
the rebel steamers. The Onward sailed on the 25th instant, to obey her
instructions She remained by request of our consul until niy return,
and I hope the honorable Secretary will approve of Lieutenant Nickelss
course on this occasion.
	The French mail steamer has this moment arrived from Rio, and
brings news that the Florida* captured, in latitude 15~ S. and longitude
340 W., on the 18th of June, the American ship Jabez Snow and bark
Amazonian; that on the 24th [14th] June the Georgia burned the Good
Hope and ransomed the George Griswold [June 8] and the J. W. Seaver
[June 14], and sent the crews of the captured vessels into the port of
Rio in the ransomed vessels. I sail immediately in chase.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	0.	5. Gi~issoN,
		Captain, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Commodore Thatcher, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship
Constellation, relative to the construction in England of a Confederate
cruiser as a commerce destroyer for the Mediterranean Sea.

U.	S. SHIP CONSTELLATION,
Leghorn, Italy, June 29, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform the Department that I have learned
from many private sources, which I have every reason to believe relia-
ble, that a very fast steamer, said to be called the Southerner, has been
built in England, destined for a Confederate cruiser against the United
States commerce in the Mediterranean, and from the fact that a rebel
commander, T. Jefferson Page, late of the U. S. Navy, is now at Flor.
ence and believed to be awaiting the arrival of this steamer with the
* The Jabez Snow was captured May 29 and the Amazonian June 2, by the Alabama

Page 372

372	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

intention of assuming the command, I have reason to believe these
reports to be true. It is said, and generally believed here, that this
vessel will arrive in a Mediterranean port with ~regular papers and
cargo, but in all respects fitted in such a manner that she caii at once
be converted into a privateer. I have therefore believed it to be in y
duty to lay these facts before the iDepartmen t., trusting that a well-
armed United States steamer may be speedily sent into the Mediter-
ranean with a view to aiding in preventing the destruction of our
extensive commerce in this sea.
	At this season of prevailing calms the Constellation, though an effi-
cient vessel of her class, could not successfully pursue a steamer.
	I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	HENRY K. THATCHER,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commodore.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. ci.


Report of Commander Wyman, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Santi-
ago de Cuba, of detention at Port Royal, S. C., for coal and repairs.

U.	S. S. SANTIAGO DE CUBA,
Port Royal, S. C., June 29, 1863.
	SIR: The captured steamer Britannia having on board but one days
coal, and not being able to coal her from this vessel, our coal being
nearly expenfled in a cruise of three weeks, as this vessels boilers, etc.,
reqnire repairs which can not be accomplished without the assistance
of a machine shop and mechanics, and as I had been informed by Coin-
manders Clary and Collins that the mechanics would leave Key West
on the 1st day of July, 1 have taken the Britannia in tow to this port,
where I hope to be able to have the necessary repairs on the boilers,
etc., of this vessel completed in about two weeks.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
B.	II. WYMAN,

Hon.	GIDEON WELLES, Commander, U. S. Navy, Commanding.
Secretary of the Navy.


Letter from 3fessrs. Aipheus Hardy &#38; Co. to the Secretary of the Navy
relative to the protection of the fishing interests on the New England
coast.
BOSTON, June 29, 1863.
	DEAR SIR: Following the permission* granted by you, and in connec-
tion with Commodore Montgomery, we have dispatched the schooner
Thos. Woodward, Lieutenant Commanding John H. Welsh, fully armed
by the commodore (including two 32-pounders), and manned by 3(1
resolute Gloucester fishermen.
	She is ordered to cruise on our coast, visiting the fishing grounds,
and report within twenty days at some point between this and Halifax.
We are also now fitting two similar schooners, but as the Tacony is
destroyed and we know of no like craft on our coast we shall wait a
few days, when, if no new l)irate appears, we shall dispatch them to
cruise for two or three weeks among the fishermen, to protect them in

See p. 307

Page 373

OPERAPIONS OF TIlE CUUISERSIJNION.	373


their important pursuits. We feel that if no pirate appears we have
no authority to continue, unless you give us additional liberty to have
them retained as coast guards and protectors to fis~iermen, the Govern-
ment assuming the expenses after the special service ceases for which
the merchants offered them and will pay them.
	It is the opinion of good judges in this community that sharp, broad,
fast schooners, with two 32-pounders, are the best guards, short of
steamers, for our coast and fishing grounds.
	The two schooners now fitting are especially suited to the Bay [Gulf]
of St. Lawrence, where there will soon be the usual large fishing fleet
of several hundred sail, and where the shoalness of the fishing grounds
and harbor would render a large ship unserviceable.
We remain, respectfully and truly, yours,
ALPHEUS HARDY &#38; Co.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.


Letter from Timothy Davis, esq., to the Secretary of the Navy, requesting
that guns be furnished for the port of Gloucester.
BOsTON, June 29, 1863.
	Sili: There is need of fortifications at the port of Gloucester. At
present the property there is absolutely at the mercy of the most
insignificant rebel privateer.
	1 have just had an interview with the ordnance officer at Charles-
town. He has there a good supply of old-style 32-pounder guns which
he has no use for. He would gladly furnish our people with these if
he had authority. I respectfully but earnestly ask you to instruct the
ordnance officer to place at my disposal for service at Gloucester eight
of these guns, mounted. I will guarantee the safety and good care of
this property until a more formal arrangement is made.
	Will you do me the great favor to telegraph me on receipt of this
letter~i
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
TIMOTHY DAVIS.
Hon. SECRETARY OF THE NAVY.

[Endorsement.]

	Replied by telegram that orders had been given the commandant at
Boston navy yard to furnish the necessary guns and ammunition.
	Bureau of Ordnance, July 1, 1863.
H.	A. WISE.

Order of the Secretary of the Navy to the commandant navy yard, Boston,
regarding the U. S. S. Cambridge.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, June 29, 1863.

	SIR: If you think there are any other privateers on the coast you
can send the Gambridge in pursuit of them; if not, direct Commander
Spicer to proceed with her to Hampton Roads and report to Acting
Rear-Admiral S. P. Lee for duty.
	Very respectfully, etc.,	GIDEON WELLES,
		   Secretary of Navy.
	Commodore JNO. B. MONTGOMERY
Commandant Na4 Yard, Bosto~i

Page 374

374	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from committee of citizens of Boston to the Secretary of the Yavy
relative to the protection of fisheries in the Gulf of St. Lawrence against
Confederate cruisers.
BOSTON, June 29, 1863.
SIR:	Your telegram* of the 27th reached me yesterday morning.
	Neither Mr. Upton nor Mr. Frazar signed the petition of the 25th,
and do not approve of sailing vessels for the protection of the fisheries
in the Gulf of St. Lawrence and thereabouts, which was the locality
alluded to in the petition, and I am inclined, on reflection, to coincide
with them.
	The committee selected by you to carry out the wishes of the mer-
chants respectfully suggest for your consideration a modification of the
suggestion of the merchants, which, on conferring with some of the
parties, is approved.
	That a propeller like the How quah or the Iron Age is what is neces-
sary for the effectual protection of the large fleet centering in the Bay
[Gulf] of St. Lawrence, and that the two sailing vessels alluded to in
your dispatch should be fitted to cruise in the open seas frequented by
our fishermen, and that they should be fast-sailing ships or barks of
500 to 1,000 tons, heavily armed, and capable of contending with such
vessels as [the] Alabama or Florida.
	Such vessels as these would be wholly out of place in the waters near
the Bay [Gulf] of St. Lawrence, and small fore-and-aft vessels would not
afford the requisite protection against steamers of the enemy. On the
other hand, the Tacony and her successor having been destroyed, the
propellers Iron Age and How quah can probably be available in a few
days, when they must return for coal, for the proper protection of the
fisheries aforesaid. The committee will therefore suspend all action
until they hear further from the Department by telegram or otherwise.
	At the moment there is not a single suitable vessel in this port fit to
mount anything but a howitzer.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
H.	B. FORBES,
For the Committee.
Hon. G. WELLES, Secretary of Navy.


Letter from a committee of the citizens of Gloucester, Jlliass., to the Secre-
tary of the Navy, requesting the presence of an armed vessel to afford
protection on the New England coast.
WASHINGTON, June 29, 1863.
	IDEAR SIR: The undersigned, a committee chosen by the citizens of
Gloucester, Mass., to confer with your Department and request that
some armed vessels may be detailed for the protection of the fishing
fleet on the coast of New England an~ in the Gulf of St. Lawrence,
would respectfully suggest that one vessel be assigned to cruise from
Nantucket to the northeast part of Georges Bank, one from Georges
Bank to Cape Canso, and one in the Gulf of St. Lawrence.
	Fishing vessels are employed in these waters until the last of No-
vember.
Respectfully,
G.	P. Low.
BENJ. II. CORLISS.
JOSEPH 0. PROCTOR.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES, Secretary of the Navy.
* See p. 314

Page 375

OPERATIONS OF	THE CRUISERS-~UNION. 375
[Telegram.]

AUGUSTA, June 30, 18632 p. m.
(Received at Washington 3:55 p. in.)
	The shipping on this entire coast and the various shipbuilding cities
and towns are exposed to the depredations of rebel cruisers. The
various steamers, coasting and fishing vessels, are without the slightest
protection from rebel pirates who are upon our coast and who may
swarm here with impunity. They may also enter our rivers and numer-
ous ports and destroy our shipping and shipbuilding towns. For the
protection of these latter I have organized State guards at points par-
ticularly exposed, and porfions of the coast and large towns are
defended by the coast defenses. Still our entire commerce on this
coast is without protection against rebel armed vessels. To meet the
instant necessity of a particular localitythat of Bath, on the Kennebec
RiverI have temporarily employed a small steamer to guard the
approaches to that locality, while other places are equally exposed.
The necessity of the case, I respectfully submit, demands the employ-
ment of an armed vessel to cruise on this coast for the protection of
these interests. I earnestly invite an early consideration of the subject.
ABNER COBURN, Governor of Maine.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to lion. A. A. Low, president
Chamber of Commerce, New York, regarding steps frr the protection of
commerce.
NAVY DEPART1~II~NT, June 30, 1863.

	SIR: I am in receipt of your communication* of the 24th instant in
reference to a convoy to merchant vessels from New York to the British
Channel. As soon as the Department receives the memorial stating
the views and wishes of the Chamber of Commerce it will take measures
to afford such aid as the exigencies demand and the best interests of the
commercial marine of the country require.
	Very respectfully, etc.,	GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.
A.	A. Low, Esq.,
President Chamber of Commerce, New York City.


Letter from the president of the Portland Board of Trade to the Secretary
of the Navy, transmitting resolution requesting protection for the coast
	of Maine.	[PORTLAND, Mm,1 June 30, 1863.

	At a meeting of the Board of Trade of this city I have been instructed
to communicate the following resolution, and, in view of our extended
coast and defenseless condition, trust we shall have a pronipt response:
	Re8olved, That the president of this board request the Secretary of the Navy to sta-
tion at once one or more efficient war steamers to cruise off the coast of Maine for
the protection of our extensive commercial interests.

Yours, truly,
T. C. HERSEY,

President Board of Trade.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
*500 p. 306

Page 376

376	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from the Secretary of the Treasury to the Secretary of the Navy,
transmitting reports from U. S. revenue officials of Maine regarding the
movements of C. S. S. Florida and the need of protection Jor the harbors
of that State.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, July 1, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to transmit herewith for your information a
copy of a telegram* this moriling received from the collector of Port-
land, conveying information of the intended movements of the rebel
steamer Florida.
	II also transmit a copy of a communication from the collector of Bath,
Me., in which he makes certain suggestions concerning the defense of
the Kennebec River.
	The defense of the rivers and harbors of the Union belongs to the
Departments of the Navy and War, and I therefore respectfully reter
these communications to you. To the full extent of the very limited
means of this Department I shall most gladly cooperate in any action
you may consider expe(lient.
I am, very respectfully
S.	P. CHASE,
Secretary of the Treasury~
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

[Enclosure.]

CUSTOM-HOUSE, COLLECTORS OFFICE,
Bath, Me., June 29, 1863.
	SIR: You are aware that the l)orts and harbors of the coast of Maine
are in imminent danger of attack by the rebel cruisers now off and
miear the coast, aiA that a successful attempt has been made to cut out
the revenue cutter in the harbor of Portland. This harbor, and in fact
the whole of the Kennebec River, is in an entirely defenseless condi-
tion, and the best method of providing a speedy means of (lefeuse is
to charter or purchase the steamer Ella Morse, now here. She is a new
steamer of 200 tons burden, very fast and stanch, and is considered
by competent judges to be just what we want for the purpose of defend-
ing the Kennebec River against the depredations of rebel privateers.
I learn from the owners of this steamer that they have been negotia-
ting with the War Department to sell her to the Government and that
she can be purchased for $45,000.
	The vast amount of property exposed to destruction on this river
reminders it necessary that immediate measures be taken to defend it,
and I have to suggest the propriety of the purchase or charter of said
steamer, or some other suitable vessel, for the purpose.
	As there is no revenue cutter or boat statiomied here for the protec-
tion of the revenue, I would most earnestly suggest that the Govern-
mnent, if it does not see fit to purchase or charter the above-named
steamer for that purpose, should procure amid place here some other
vessel forthwith. A suitable vessel, I think, can be obtained for about
$5,000 and placed here at once.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ROLAND FISHER,
Collector.
Hon. SALMON P. CHASE,
Secretary of this Treasury, Washington, D. C.
*Seep 337

Page 377

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	377


Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to a committee of citizens of Boston
regarding vessels for the protection of commerce.

NAVY DEPART~IENT, July 1, 1863.

GENTLEMEN:	Your letter* of the 29th ultinio is received.
	Aipheus Hardy &#38; Co., by authority of the Department, having sent
~)ut one fast-sailing scliooiier and proposing to send out tw~ others, and
the prize steamer Aries having also been detailed for coast service,
would seem to render any further action on yonr part unnecessary.
The steamer Iron Age will also be retained for cruising to the eastward
4Lntil more definite information is obtained from the coast of Brazil as
to the movements of the Florida, Georgia, Alabama, and Lapwing, all of
which were in the vicinity of that coast May 20, as was also the U. S. S.
Mohican, and ere this it is supposed the Vanderbilt is there, a vessel
having been sent from Philadelphia oit the 6th of June to St. Thomas,
wit h a repetition of the orders of January last for that steamer to
follow these pirates.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

Messrs. IR. B. FORBES, A. A. FRAZAR, and GEO. B. UPTON,

Boston.


Ca~ture of the British schooner Don Jos~~, July 2, 1863.

Iteport of Commander Clitz, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Juniata, of the capture by that
vessel of the British schooner Don Jos6.

U.	S. S. JUNIATA,
At sea, July 2, 1863.
	SIR: I have to inform you that at about 7 a. m. to-day we discovered
a sail standing to the westward, the wind from the eastward; stood
for her and fired a shot ahead of her, when she hoisted English colors
and hove to; boarded her, and found her to be the English schooner
Don Jos~, James Lord, master, of Nassau, New Providence, bound to
Havana.
	She had no log, no letter of instructions, no course pricked on chart,
and her papers are imperfect. She has a crew of eight persons and
two passengers.
	According to her bill of lading, she has as cargo 100 bags salt, 14
bales cotton, 10 deinijohus ruin. I quarter cask rum. She has also on
board a paper which mentions that the cargo is for the Confederate
States of America. There was also found on board considerable money
in Confederate bills and a few dollars in gold and silver.
	The Don Jos~ was formerly the pilot boat Edna Jones, of Key West.
I then took possession of her, and sent her to the port of Key West in
charge of Acting Master D. G. Tayler and a prize crew of four men,
viz, two seamen and two landsmen. At the time of the capture there
was no vessel in sight.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
J.	M. B. GLITZ,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
~See p.374

Page 378

378	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Commander 3. N. Th Clitz, U. S. Navy, calling for a
further report in regard to the capture of the schooner Don 3os~.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 8, 1864.

	SIR: The seizure of the British schooner Don Jos6 by the U. S. steam
51001) Juniata, under your command, on the 2d of July last, has been
brought to the attention of this Government by the Government of
Great Brifain, and the question of proper compensation due to the
parties alleged to have been injured by the seizure has been presented
for consideration.
	I enclose herewith a copy of a letter addressed to the acting British
vice-consul at Key West by the U. S. district attorney at that port, in
which he states that on a thorough examination of the ships papers
and the depositions of the witnesses examined he was unable to find
any facts which warranted the detention of the vessel.
	I also enclose a copy of the protest of the master of the schooner
against her seizure and the pillaging of the trunks and lockups of the
officers and crew.
	The Department has on file your report of July 2, 1863, of the seizure
of the Don JosJ, but at the suggestion of the Secretary of State trans-
mits these papers to you, with a view to more direct explanation. Be
pleased to furnish a supplemental report in this matter as early as
practicable.
Very respectfully, etc.,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commander J. M. B. CLITZ,	Secretary of the Navy.
tjomrkanding U. S. S. Oceola, Boston.


Supplemental report of Commander Clitz, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Juniata, regarding
the capture by that vessel of the British schooner Don Jose.

U.	S. S. OSCEOLA
Boston Navy Yard, January 18, 1864.
	SIR: In compliance with the Departments order of the 8th instant,
I have the honor to submit the following supplemental report relative
to the capture of the English schooner Don Jos6 by the U. S. S Juniata,
nuder my command, on time 2d of July last:
	The Don Jose was seeii about 7 a. m. of the 2d and overhauled. upon
examination I found but one person, the master, to be English; the
others, crew and passengers, were Spaniards. She had no log book,
no letter of instructions n
were imperfect. , o course pricked on the chart, and her papers
I marked the imperfect papers to call the attention of the U. S.
district attorney to them and sent them by the prize master. In what
way the papers were imperfect I can not at this time say, but the
imperfections were all pointed out to the prize master.
	Among the papers found on board was one stating that her cargo
was intended for the Confederate States, and she also had a considera-
ble quantity of Confederate money on board.
	The Don Jos~ was formerly the pilot boat Edna Jones, of Key West,
and as such had, I was informed r
seizure of her.	, un the blockade previous to my
Considering all the circumstances, I was convinced that she intended
running the blockade at some point on the coast, and felt it ray (luty
tQ send her to the nearest port for trial, which port was Key West

Page 379

379
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
	The crew and passengers were treated kindly, and no complaints
were made by anyone to my knowledge of improper conduct on the
part of the boarding officer and crew. Our ensign was flying before
I fired the gun to bring the schooner by the wind, and I have no knowl-
edge of the English ensign being hauled down at any time.
	Of the conduct of the prize master and crew after parting company
with the Juniata I of my own knowledge know nothing; but upon my
arrival at Key West some weeks after I learned that the prize master,
Acting Master D. G. Tayler, had been sent North by Acting Rear-
Admiral Bailey for drunkenness and subsequently dismissed the
service.
	I regret that I am now separated from the officers of the Juniata,
from whom statements might be had which would perhaps be of use to
the Government.
	Acting Master J. II. Stimpson, U. S. Navy, now, I believe, attached
to the U. S. S. Wachusett, was the boarding officer at the time of the
said capture.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J. M. B. CLITZ,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Ac4ting Rear-Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of cruise in search of Confederate cruisers.

FLAGSHIP TICONDEROGA,
Cura9ao, July 3, 1863.
	SIR: On the 27th ultimo, at St. Thomas, I learned that a storeship
of the rebel cruisers, the Lapwing, was abandoned and burned by her
crew near Barbados. Thinking it probable that one or more of them
might be drawing toward their old cruising ground, I sailed on the
same day for the unoccupied island of Blanquilla, where Semmes had
coaled from the Agrippina. He had also been there in the Sumter.
Hearing nothing of him there I came to this place, and will sail
to-morrow at daylight for the Windward Islands. Our reception by
the authorities has been of the most cordial and friendly character.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	L. LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Messrs. Aljpheus Hardy &#38; Co.
regarding the command of vessels furnished by the merchants of Boston.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 3, 1863.
GENTLEMEN:	Your letter* of June 99 is received.
	The merchants of Boston being desirous of fitting ont vessels at
their own expense for coast protection, notwithstanding the Depart-
*See pp. 372, ~73

Page 380

3s0	OPERATh)NS OF THE Cl~UISER~UNION.

ment had already placed forty vessels on the track of the pirates, I
did not feel that the Department should throw any obstacles in their
way. I therefore directed that they should be commanded l)y the Navy
Department, so that the question of granting letters of marque (which
belongs exclusively to the State Department) might not be raised. I
shall be happy to command and arm as many vessels as the merchants
desire to send oat, in the same condition as already asked for.
Very respectfully,
GIDEON WELLES,
8ecretary of the Navy.
Messrs. ALPIIEUS HARDY &#38; Co.,
Boston, Mass.



Letter from the &#38; cretary of the Navy to the president Board of Trade,
Portland, Me., regarding protection of commercial interests of that place.

NAvY DEPARTMENT, July 3, 1863.
	SIR:	I have to acknowledge the receil)t of your telegram* of the 30th
ultimo, communicating a resolution of the Board of Trade of Portland,
requesting that one or moi~e efficient war steamers may be or(lered to
cruise off the coast of Maine for the l)rotectlon of our extensive coin-
mercial interests, and to state in reply that there are vessels of war
cruising in that vicinity at thepresent time.
Very~respectfully, etc.,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	T. C. HERSEY, Esq.,	Secretary of the Navy.
President Board of Trade, Portland, Maine.



Letter from ft. B. Forbes to the Secretary of the Navy in regard to the
protection of the fishing fleet against Confederate cruisers.

BOSToN, July 3, 1863.
	SIR:	I have to own receipt of your favor of the I st instant, and take
note that the authority contained in your telegraphic dispatch of the
27th nltlino is thereby canceled.
	The three vessels sent out by the committee of which Mr. hardy is
the chairman and myself a member are ordered to report at various
places in the course of a week or teii days, and as the exigency which
they were designed to meet is over for the present they will probably
be discharged.
	The large interest involved in the fisheries and iii the European
trade passing over and near to the fishing grounds seems to call for
protection of a character to cope with some or all of the enemys well.
known cruisers, some of which, it is thought. will before long be found
on our easterii coast.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
li.	B. FORBES.
Hon. GIDEoN WELLES,
Secretary qi the Navy.

Se~ p. 375

Page 381

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS-UNION.	381

Letter rorn the President of the United States to the Secretary of the
Navy in regard to the protection of commerce.

EXECUTIVE MANSION,
Washington, July 7, 1863.
	MY DEAR SIR: The gentlemen named in the attached resolution
have presented it to me this morning. It explains itself. Please care-
fully consider the subject, and do the best in regard to it which you
can consistently with the general public service.
Yours, truly,
A.	LINCOLN.
Hon. SECRETARY OF THE NAVY.

[Newspaper clipping.j

	Resolved, That Hon. Hannibal Hamlin, Vice-President of the United
Stales, and our two Senators in Congress be requested to repair imme-
diately to Washington, for the purpose of urging upon the President
the importance and necessity of placing along the coast a sufficient
naval and military force to protect the commerce of the country from
piratical depredations of the rebels, and to have the same accom-
plished in such manner as shall be most efficient and expeditious.


Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Mohican,
transmitting correspondence with U. S. consul at Rio de Janeiro,
Brazil.
U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Rio, July 8, 1863.
	SIR:	I herewith enclose you a COI)Y of my letter to the U. S. consul
at this port and his answer to the same.
	I sail at daylight to-morrow morning in chase of the piratical vessels.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S~ Navg.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the N~tvy,, D. C.
[Enclosures.]
U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Rio de Janeiro, July 5, 1863.
	SIR:	I have this moment anchored in this port, and am in chase of
the Alabama, Florida, and Georgia. If you have any news of their
mnovememits will you do inc the favor to communicate it to me. My
boat is on shore, and I shall be glad to welcome you ou board of the
Miohican.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. 0-LIsSON,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
JAMES MONROE, Esq.,
U.	S. Consul, Rio de Janeiro.


CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES,
Rio de Janeiro, July 6, 1863.
	SIR:	In compliance with your polite note of yesterday I proceed to
furnish you with such infrimation in regard to the movements of the
Comifederate privateers as has been reported directly to this office

Page 382

382	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	On the 29th of May, in latitude 15~ S. arid longitude 350 W., the ship
Jabez Snow was captured and burned by the Alabama.
	On the 2d of June, in latitude 150 S. and 1on~itude 340 30 W., the
bark Amazonian was captured and burned by the Alabama.
	On the 5th of June, in latitude 140 47 S. and longitude 340 7 W.,
the ship Talisman was captured and burned by the Alabama.
	On the 8th of June, when about 15 miles S. E. from Cape Frio, the
ship George Griswold was captured and bonded by the Georgia.
	On the 14th of June, in latitude 220 S. and longitude 36~ 40 W., the
bark Good Hope was captured and burned by the Georgia.
	On the 14th of June, the bark J. W. Seaver, in latitude 22~ S. and
longitude 360 40 W., was captured and bonded by the Georgia.
	On the 19th June, in latitude 25~ 44 5. and longitude 390 51 W.,
the bark Conrad was captured and converted into a privateer by the
Alabama.
I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant,
JAMES MONROE,
U.	S. Consul.
0.	5. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S. Navy.



Letter from R. B. Forbes, esq., to the Secretary of the Navy, enclosing two
petitions regarding the necessity of protection for American commerce.

BOSTON, July 8, 18G3.
	SIR:	I beg leave to hand you herein a petition signed by authority
of the Board of Trade of this city and by the members present at the
meeting held on the 6th instant. Also one to the same effect signed
by all the underwriters and merchants whom I have been able to coin-
municate with during the unprecedented excitement of the past few
days. There usually centers in the Gulf of St. Lawrence from 600 to
800 American vessels and on the Grand Banks from 200 to 300 during
the fishing season. The shipping lists show that out of nearly 180 sail
of vessels up for foreign ports in New York some 146 are under foreign
flags.
	Our commerce will soon be entirely in the hands of foreigners uiiless
our trade is protected by every means within the power of the Govern-
ment.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
R.	B. FORBES.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

[Enclosure 1.]


	The undersigned merchants and underwriters respectfully call your
attention to the necessity for protecting our European trade and our
fisheries by an adequate naval force, solely under the authority of the
Government.
	The track of vessels to and from Europe passes over the ground
occupied by our bank fishermen and in near proximity to the track of
the large fishing fleet usually centering in and about the Gulf of St.
Lawrence

Page 383

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	383

	Besides these interests, there is a considerable trade with the British
provinces requiring protection.
	Yonr memorialists therefore pray that two or thr~e powerful and fast
vessels of war may be detailed to protect these interests, and that one
or more small ~but well-armed steamers be sent into the vicinity of the
Gulf of St. Lawrence, where the principal fishing fleet usually centers
from July to November.
CHAS. G. NAZRO.
MANUFACTURERS INSURANCE Co.,
By SAML. GOULD, President.
J.	M. FORBES &#38; Co.
[And 10 other members of the Board of Trade of Boston.]

	At a meeting of the government of the Boston board this day, voted,
That the president and secretary sign this memorial in behalf of the
Board of Trade.
	July 6, 1863.
	Attest:	JAS. C. CONVERSE,
		President.
		COUNRO SABINE,
		Secretary.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
[Enclosure 2.1

	[Same petition as above, signed by 143 underwriters and merchants
of the city ofbBoston.]


Report of Lieutenant- Commander Miller, U. S. Navy, commanding char-
tered steamer Ericsson, of the pursuit of that vessel by the C. S. S.
Florida.
CHARTERED STEAMER ERICSSON,
Brooklyn Navy Yard, July 9, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that about meridian of the 8th
instant, in latitude 400 28 N., longitude 690 33 W., we discovered two
sails to the westward. On boarding the nearest, she proved to be the
English brig Boreas, from New York, bound to Halifax.
	The captain reported that he had spoken on the previous evening the
English brig Phantom, from Glace Bay [Cape Breton Island], Captain
Breton, bonnd to New York, and that he had seen a man-of-war board
the same brig on the morning of the 8th. As there were but two ves-
sels in sight, I presumed the other vessel was the brig Phantom. She
was heading for ns, and we could not see her smokestacks until she
hauled up her courses. She had every appearance of an English man-
of war. On approaching, her movements became suspicious. She
turned and steamed to the W., evidently trying our speed and endeavor-
ing to ascertain onr armament. In a short [time] she hauled to the E.,
passing our beam at the distance of about 1,200 yards. After she had
passed the beam, I concluded she was an English vessel or she would
have then fired.
	Her loweiT ports were down and her guns run ont. As she ranged on
our quarter a fog set in, nearly obscuring her from sight, and at this
time she fired a rifled shot, which struck near our vessel and, ricochet-
ting, struck the rim of onr foretop. This was soon followed by two
other shots, which struck near us, but before the second was fired the
fog became so dense that we could not see her

Page 384

384	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	It was reported to me that when she fired the first shot she hauled
down the English colors and hoisted Confederate, but she was not then
in sight from the wheelhouse. As our arrnamentwas greatly inferior
to hers I felt confident that we would soon be captured if we attempted
to engage her, and I concluded to take advantage of the fog to escape.
	We changed our course to the southward and westward and stood
on at full speed, making 10 knots, but a tube in one of the boilers soon
gave way, reducing our speed to 9 knots. The fog lifted in about half
an hour, and the privateer was discovered about 4 miles astern, stand-
ing across our stern. On seeing us, she immediately changed her course
for us. We slowly gained on her, increasing the distance to about 5
miles. At 5 p. m. she gave up the chase and hauled to the southward
in pursuit of a brig which we had passed at the distance of 3 miles.
	Our armament consists of one 20-pounder Parrott gun, mounted on
a Marsilly carriage, and two 12-pounder rifled howitzers, mounted on
field carriages. One of these was on the house aft, and could not have
been used without knocking away the rail. We have a crew of only
twenty men.
	The following is a description of the privateer. She is a propeller,
bark rigged, with long lower masts, has two smokestacks forward of the
mainmast, has a white boat astern and two quarter boats, and is pierced
for ten guns. We could see four on her starboard side, but could not
tell whether she had one in the fifth port. She was under topgallant~
sails when we first saw her, and her sails were taken in quickly and in
man-of-war style.
	It was evi4ent that she had not a speed greater than 9 knots. Sh&#38; 
made every effort to overtake us, as could be seen from the dense sinok&#38; 
and their making sail whenever it would draw. After we lost sight of
her we shaped our course for New York, but stopped at 8 oclock this~
morning to repair the boiler, and were unable to speak vessels bound
to the eastward.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J. N. MILLER,
Lieutenant- Commander, Commanding Steamer Ericsson.,
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Additional report by Lieutenant-Commander Miller, U. S. Navy, com-
mandIng chartered steamer Ericsson, of the chase qf that vessel by the
C. S. S. Florida.

NEW YORK NAVY YARD, July 13, 1863.

	SIR: I beg leave to add the following statement to my report of the
encounter of the steamer Ericsson with the privateer.
	The English brig Phantom arrived here on Saturday, and I was
informed by the mate that the privateer passed within 200 yards of them
before the fog set in, but on their hoisting English colors she stood off
without speaking them. The captain was on shore when I boarded the
brig, and the mate stated that he was not positive as to the number of
broadside guns the privateer carried, but thinks there were five on each
side. He saw two heavy pivot guns, one forward and the other aft.
She had up American colors when she passed them, but when in chase
of us she was under Confederate colors. This we could not see, as sh

Page 385

OPERATIONS 01 THE CRUISERSUNION.	385

was head on. One of the crew had seen the Alabama and was confi-
dent that it was the Alabama but I
one smokestack.	,	have been informed she has only
	I omitted to mention in my report that we ha~ up American colors
during the time the vessel was in sight, and that we were at quarters
from the tIme of leaving the brig Borcas.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J. N. MILLER,
Lteuleflau t- Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 10, 1868.

	Chartered steamer Ericsson encountered on the 8th instant, in lati-
tude 400 28, longitude 690 3~Y, a rebel aimed steamer answering the
description of the Florida, and is no doubt that vessel. Site fired three
shots at the Ericsson, and was then shut out by fog. Send the Tusca-
rora, Montgomery, and Cambridge off Nantucket and to the eastward
immediately. Have the Aries, Shenandoah, and Iron Age ready to
move at a moments notice. From a journal of one of the crew of the
Tacony it appears she expected to meet the Florida off Nantucket.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Commodore JOHN B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant Navy Yard, Boston.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 10, 1863.
	The Florida is described as a propeller, bark rigged, with long lower
masts, two smokestacks forward of the mainmast, white boat astern,
two quarter boats, and as having the appearance of a regular man-
of-war.
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commodore JNO. B. MONTGOMERY,	Secretary of the Navy.
Commandant Navy Yard, Boston.


[Telegram.]

BOSTON, July 10, 1863.
(Received at Washington 3:20 p. in.)
	The Shenandoah, though undergoing repairs, can 1)0 made ready
to-morrow for a short cruise iii search of the reported rebel steamer
seen off Nantucket on the 8th instant. Shall I send her l
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Sccrctary Navy,.
	N W RVOL II	2

Page 386

	386	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		                 [Telegram.]

KAVY DEPARTMENT, July 10, 1863.

	The engineer in chief reports that there is nothing to prevent the
Tuscarora and Shenandoah going to sea immediately. Stop all repairs
instantly, and have all your vessels at sea to-night. Answer by tele-
graph.
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commodore MONTGOMERY,	Secretary.
Boston Navy Yard.


[Telegram.]

BOSTON, July 10, 1863.
(Received at Washington 3:30 p. in.)
	Fisherman arrived at Tarpaulin Cove reports three-masted rebel
steamer, bark rigged, 80 miles southeast Gay Head, yesterday, burned a
brig and schooner, and started for fleet of Provincetown mackerel
catchers.
F.	II. PALMER,

Hon. GIDEON WELLES. Superintendent Merchants Exchange.


Instructions of the commandant navy yard, Boston, to Acting Volunteer
Lieutenant Faucon, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Montgomery, rela-
tive to a cruise in search of the C. S. S. Florida.

BOSTON NAVY YARD, July 10, 1863.
	SIR: You will proceed to sea with the U. S. S. Montgomery, under
your command, to search for a rebel steamer seen off Nantucket on
the 8th instant. You will take a course from the Boston light round
Mount Desert, thence not going to the eastward of Cape Sable, and so
by Georges Shoals.
	You will make careful search for the rebel steamer, and take advan-
tage of any information you receive from vessels you speak which may
lead to the capture of the rebel stearuer. After cruising for as long a
time as you deem prudent, you will run into some handy port on the
coast and telegraph to me, when you will be further instructed.
	The rebel steamer is described as being bark rigged and pierced for
ten guns.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
	Acting Volunteer Lieutenant E. H. FAUCON,	Commandant.
Commandin1j U. S. S. Montgomery, Navy Yard, Boston.


Instructions of the commandant navy yard, Boston, to Commander Spicer,
U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. t3ambridge, relative to a cruise in search
of the C. S. S. Florida.
BOSTON NAVY YARD, July 10, 1863.

	SIR: You will proceed to sea at the earliest practicable moment with
the U. S. S. Cambridge, under your command, to search for the rebe

Page 387

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	387


steamer Florida, which when last seen was off Nantucket. After pass-
ing Cape Cod proceed out of the south channel, ~ighting, if possible,
the light-ship at Davis South Shoals, thence westward toward Gay
Head and Montauk Point, passing anywhere from 15 to 40 miles east
of the Jlighlapds of Navesink.
	You will make careful search for the rebel steamer, and take advan-
tage of any information you receive from vessels you speak which may
lead to her capture. After cruising as long as your supply of coal will
allow you will return to this port.
	The steamer is described as being a bark-rigged vessel and pierced
for ten guns.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
	Commander W. F. SPICER,
Commanding U. S. ~ Cambridge, Navy Yard, Boston.


[Telegram.]

BOSTON, July 10, 1863.
(Received at Washington 3:40 p. in.)
	Your telegram received. Steamers Montgomery and Cambridge have
already received their orders to search for the Florida.
	Tuscarora~ boilers are iii such a condition that she can not go to sea.
I have telegraphed that the Shenandoah can go to-morrow morning.
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 10, 1863.
	Your telegrams received. The Florida destroyed yesterday two yes-
sels 80 miles southeast of Gay Head, and wa~s supposed to be bound
for the Provincetown mackerel fleet. Send all your vessels out in the
track of our vessels, and work night and day on the Tusearora. Report
by telegraph the exact time each vessel leaves.
	Answer this by telegram.
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
Commodore MONTGOMERY,
Commandant Navy Yard, Boston.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 10, 1863.
	Send the IJithan Allen to cruise from Georges Bank to Cape Canso.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Commodore JNO. B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant Navy Yard, Boston

Page 388

	388	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		               [Telegram.]

CHARLESTOWN, MAs s.~ July 10, 1863.
(Received at Washington 10 p. in.)
	Two telegrams received together. The Montgomery and Cambridge
have sailed. The Ethan Allen and Shenandoah will sail ~it the earliest
practicable moment in the morning, and if 1)OSSible the Tuscarora will
also be sent.
J.	B. MONT~O1~IERY,
Commandant.
Hon. G. WELLES.



Instructions of the commandant navy yard, Boston, to Acting Master
Pennell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. bark Ethan Allen, relative to
a cruise in search of the C. S. S. Florida.

BOSTON NAVY YARD, July 11, 1863.
	Siu: You will proceed to sea with the U. S. bark Ethan Allen, under
your command, using the utmost possible dispatch, to search for the
rebel steamer Florida, which when last seen was off Nantucket. She
destroyed yesterday two vessels 80 miles southeast of Gay Head, and
was supposed to be bound for the Provincetown mackerel fleet.
	You will cruise from Georges Bank to Cape Canso, and make careful
search for the rebel steamer, taking advantage of any reliable informa-
tion you re~ive from vessels you speak which may lead to the capture
of any rebel cruiser. You will cruise as long as your supply of water
will allow over the track indicated, after which you will return to this
port.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
6~ommandant.
	A~cting Master I. A. PENNELL, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. bark Ethan Allen, Navy Yard, Boston.



Instructions of the commandant navy yard, Boston, to Captain Ridgely,
U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Shenandoah, relative to a cruise mu
search of the C. S. S. Florida.

BOSTON NAVY YARD, July 11, 1863.
	SIR: You will proceed to sea with the U. S. steam sloop Shenandoah,
under your command, using the utmost possible dispatch, to search
for the rebel steamer Florida. She was seen off Nantucket on the 8th
instant, and yesterday destroyed two vessels 80 miles southeast of Gay
Head, and was supposed to be bound for the Provincetown mackerel
Ileet. You will proceed direct for our fisheries about Georges Shoals,
from thence off the Shoals of Nantucket and Marthas Vineyard, and
cruise between Block Island and Cape Sable.
	You will make careful search for the rebel steamer, and take advan.
tage of any reliable information you receive from vessels you may meet
which may lead to the capture of the Florida or any other rebel
cruiser

Page 389

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	389

	After cruising as long as your supply of coal will allow, conimunica-
ting with me when opportunities offer, you will return to this port.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,

Commandant.
	Captain B. B. RIDGELY, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Shenandoah, Navy Yard, Boston.



[Telegram.]

CHARLESTOWN, MASS., July 11, 1863.
(Received at Washington 11 a. in.)
	Shenandoah sailed in search of rebel steamer at 8:15 this morning.
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
Hon. G. WELLES,
Secretary Navy.


[Telegram.]

BOSTON, July 11, 1863.
(Received at Washington 1:20 p. in.)
	Bark IJtha~n [Allen] sailed a quarter before 10 a. iu.
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
Hon. G. WELLES.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 11, 1863.

	If the Augusta is in suitable condition to make a cruise to the fishing
banks, where the rebel steamer Florida is at work, send her there at
once.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Commodore C. K. STRIBLING,
Commandant Navy Yard, Philadelphia.


Report of the commandant navy yard, Boston, of the sailing of the U. S. S.
Shenandoah and bark Ethan Allen in search of the C. S. S. Florida.

U.	S. NAVY YARD, COMMANDANTS OFFICE,
Boston, Jury 11, 1863.
SIR:	I have the honor to report that the U. S. S. Shenandoah and
U.	S. bark Ethan Allen have sailed in search for the rebel steamer
Florida, the former at qnarter past 8 and the latter at quarter before
10 this morning.
	They were both furnished with a (lescriptioli of the Florida, as well
as the following copy of the description of the rebel steamer Virginia:
	July 5.The Ethan A lien, while cruising after the Tacony, boarded the British brig
Adrolorern, of Barrington, Nova Scotia, twenty days from Turks Island for Halifax.

Page 390

390	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

She reports, in latitude 360, longitude 700, was boarded by the C. S. S. Virginia
[Florida?]. She made no remarks, but merely examined his papers. She was pro-
peller, bark rigged, and had battery of six broadside g~ns and two pivots; was
flying the Confederate flag at the time.

	I enclose the report of Chief Engineer Wood, of this yard, which
will explain why the Tuscarora can not be made ready to go [to] sea in
less than five days.
I am, respectfiully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,

Commandant.
ion. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Larduer, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of cruise in the U. S. S. Ticonderoga.

FLAGSHIP TICONDEROGA,
Pointe 4 Pitre, July 11, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my arrival at this port from a cruise
to C ura9ao, the island of Blanquilla, and thence along in sight of the
Windward Islands, communicating with our consul at Martinique, and
remaining a night at Prince iRupert Bay.
	I yesterday dispatched the sloop of war Oneida to the Western Gulf
Squadron, where she belongs. She has been cruising lately among
these islands as far as Barbados, and reports having heard nothing of
the rebel cruisers except the report of one of their prizes having been
abandoned and burned near Barbados. The Vanderbilt is believed to
have gone to Fernando de Noronha. I have left a copy of the Depart-
ments orders to Commander Baldwin at Martinique, and will leave
another at this place.
	The authorities here appear to be well disposed toward us, and freely
repeat their wish that our ships should visit their port frequently,
remain as long as they choose, and declare that they shall be treated
in all respects like French ships of war.
	I will sail on Monday for St. Thomas.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	L. LAUDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge,
of cruise from June 18 to July 11, 1863.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Payal, July 14, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that, in accordance with my advice
to the Department of June 18, we left Cadiz on that day and proceeded
by way of Gibraltar to Madeira, where we arrived on the 23d ultitno.
We found at Madeira, on the eve of sailing, a small English steamer
[the Smoker]. As the reported destination of this vessel was Tampico

Page 391

391
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
I resolved to overhaul her. The Smoker got underway about six hours
after our arrival, and in half an hour afterwar~ds we followed and
overtook her some 9 or 10 miles off the islands.
	On examination, her papers were found to be correct, and her cargo,
being evidently nothing but coals, she was detained but a short time
before proceeding on her course. Steaming from this point we passed
to the northward and eastward, and came to off the island of Porto
Santo [Madeira Islands], at the most convenient point for intercepting
vessels bound to Madeira or Teneriffe.
	After the lapse of several days, which afforded us a favorable lime for
exercises, and seeing no steamers, we again left for Funchal. On our
arrival at this place the consul handed me a letter from Mr. Dabney
(our consul at Teneriffe), which informed me that a privateer had been
into Teneriffe, and it was supposed she was now in pursuit of American
vessels around the island. I immediately left for Teneriffe, and arrived
the following day at Santa Cruz.
	I am happy to inform the Department that the supposed privateer
proved to be, on enquiry, one of Osbornes fleet for the Emperor of China,
a class of vessels which was unknown to the consul. leaving Ten-
eriffe on the 3d instant, we sailed for Fayal, where we arrived on the
11th instant, touching in on our way at Madeira St. Mary [Santa
Maria], St. Michael [San Miguel], and Terceira.
	It affords me pleasure to inform the Department that most of this
active cruising was done nuder sail. On our return to Madeira from
Teneriffe I learned with regret that the Phantom, steel clad and said
to be an 18-knot steamer, had come in during our short absence, coaled,
and sailed for Nassau. I further was informed at St. Michael [San
Miguel] that steamer Biansa, propelled with side wheels and two
screws, had coaled and sailed for Nassau a fortnight before.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNO. A. WINSLOW,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Na~y, Washington, D. C.



Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to B. B. Forbes, esq., regarding the
protection of commerce and fisheries.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 14, 1863.
	SIR:	I have received your letter* of the 8th instant, enclosing a peti-
tion from the Board of Trade of the city of Boston, also one from the
underwriters and merchants, asking the protection of our European
trade and our fisheries.
	This Department has detailed five vessels for permanent service on
the Eastern coast during the fishing season. It has at present several
additional cruisers in that service, and in any emergency will order
other vessels to protect the commerce and fisheries in that quarter.
	Very respectfully, etc.,	GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.
B.	B. FORBES, Esq.,
Boston.

~Seep. 382

Page 392

392	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Commander Wyman, U. S. N commanding U. S. S. Santiago
de Cuba, of the capture by that vessel of the s~teamer Lizzie.

U.	S. S. SANTIAGO DR CUBA,
At Sea, Lat. 270 7 N., Long. 750 48 W., July 15, 1863
	SIR: I have the honor to inform the Department that on this date I
seized the steamer Lizzie, of Nassau, after a chase of two hours and
send her in charge of Acting Ensign H. liabadan to the port of Phila-
delphia, with directions to stop at Port Royal, S. CX, for a supply of coal.
	The Lizzie was captured in latitude 270 7 Th, longitude 750 48 W.,
Elbow Cay S. XV. by W., distant 65 miles. She was formerly owned in
Wilmington, N. C.; now in Nassau. It is the second trip to and from
Wilmington. She is now cleared for St. John, New Brunswick, but
those on board state she is bound to Wilmington, N. C. Her cargo is
assortedbrandy, soap, dry goods, sugar, provisions, etc. She meas-
ures 106, gross measurement. A Confederate flag was found on board.
She hoisted English colors.
	The engineers department of the vessel is so reduced, that I have
been obliged to employ three of the firemen of the Lizzie to work in her
at the rate of $2.50 per day, of which I have informed the commanding
officer of the naval station at Philadelphia.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
H.	H. WYMAN,
Commander, U. S. Navy, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Captain Ridgely, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Shenandoah,
regarding the movements of that vessel.

U. S. S. SHENANDOAH,
Newport, R. I., July 16, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that I put into this harboT for fresh
water for the crew.
	We left Boston in haste, with a small supply, relying on the fresh-
water condenser, which is imperfect and makes brackish water.
	I have been cruising off Georges and Nantucket shoals, around
South Shoal, toward Block Island.
	I expect to take in fresh water in a few hours, and will continue my
cruise from Block Island toward Cape Sable, unless diverted from that
course by information.
	I have heard nothing of the pirate since we sailed.
I am, very respectfully, etc.,
DANIEL B. HIDGELY,

Captain, U. S. Navy.
Hon. G. WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington

Page 392A


Page 392B

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
306

	In reply, I would st te that there are no ironclads at present avail-
able for service in New York Harbor. All now in condition for active
operations are needed on our blockading stations, which are threatened
from both without and within. The Roanoke is under orders to Hamp-
ton Roads, where her presence is deemed of importance.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, etc.
GIDEON WELLES,
&#38; cretary of the Navy.
	Hon. E. D. MORGAN,
New York.

(Telegram.]

CHARLESTOWN, MASS., June 23, 186310:10 a. m.
(IReceived at Washington 11:50 a. in.)
	Bark 12th Allen sailed yesterday on a fortnights cruise after the
fZaeony.
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


Letter from Hon. A. A. Low, president New York Chamber of Commerce, to the Secretary of
the Navy, regarding measures of protection for American merchant vessels.

CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK,
June 24, 1863,
	SIR: It has been proposed by several members of this chainber,in
view of the continued capture and destruction of American ships on
the ocean by vessels sailing under the rebel. flag, to memorialize your
Department to provide convoy twice a month, say on the -1st and 15th
of each month, front, this port to the British Channel, and from this
port to the latitude of 300 south of the equator, for all vessels bound
to the eastward of the Cape of Good Hope and to the westward of
Cape Horn and such as may be bound to the coast of Brazil.
	The chamber will not meet till Thursday next, but at that time I am
led to think action will be taken, and I venture to apprise you of the
probable proceedings in the hope that some valuable end may be gained
by the saving of time.
	It. may not be amiss to state that the war premium alone on American
vessels carrying valuable cargoes exceeds the whole freight in neutral
ships.
	I have the honor to remain, respectfully, your obedient servant,
A.	A. Low,
President.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
&#38; eretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


(Telegram.]

BOSTON, June 24, 18639:20 a. m.
	Will you allow private vessels, at their own expense, to go for the
pirate~ Will you give us guns from i~avy yard~
A.	HARDY &#38; Co.
Hon. G. WELLES

Page 393

393
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
Affair at ShirnonosOci, July 16, 1863.

Report of Commander IVIoDongal, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Wy%ming, of the engagemont
between that vessel and the Japanese forces off Shimonos~ki.

U. S. S. WYOMING,
Yokohama, July 23, 1863.
	Siu: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your order of
the 15th April, to proceed with this ship to the J)ort of Philadelphia.
	Preparations were made to leave on the 11th install t. On the even-
ing of the 10th news was received through Japanese sources that an
American steamer had been fired on by a bark and brig of war belong-
ing [to] the Prince of iNagato, at the western outlet of the Inland Sea,
and that she disappeared, and supposed sunk. A mail from Shanghai
the same evening brought authentic information that the American
steamer Pembroke, on her passage from this place to Shanghai through
the Inland Sea, had been fired on by the above vessels and had made
her escape through the Bungo Passage. Enclosed is a copy of the
statement of the affair by the captain of the Pembroke.
	On the 13th we left this place for the scene of the outrage, and
arrived off the inner entrance of the western outlet of the Inland Sea
on the morning of the 16th.
	On the tide proving favorable we proceeded in the straits, and on
opening the town of Shimonos~ki discovered a steamer, brig, and bark
of war at anchor off the town, with Japanese colors at the peak and
the flag of th~ prince at the fore.
	We stood for the vessels, arid on approaching were fired on, as we got
in range, by six batteries on different positions, mounting from two to
four guns each. Passing between the brig and bark on the starboard
hand and the steamer on the port, we received and returned their fire
at pistol shot. Rounding the bow of the steamer and getting in posi-
tion, maintained the action for about one hour. During the affair the
steamer got underway, but two well-directed shells exploded her boilers.
The brig appeared to be settling by the stern, and no doubt sunk. The
amount of damage done the bark mnst have been serious, as well as
great destruction on shore. The straits opposite the city are about three-
fourths of a mile wide, with strong currents, which made it very difficult
to maneuver the ship properly. As I had no charts, and my pilots com-
pletely paralyzed and apprehensive of getting on shore (in fact did touch
once), I was induced to withdraw out of action.
	The fire from the shore battery was extremely brisk, and continued
so as long as we were in range. We were hulled ii times, and with con-
siderable damage to smokestack and rigging aloft, which was attrib-
uted to our passing within the range they were prepared for.
	I regret to state the loss of 4 killed and 7 wounded (1 of whom since
dead). Enclosed is the surgeons report.
	It affords me much pleasure to state that the conduct of the officers
and crew was all I could desire.
	Lieutenant Barton, in charge of the first division, makes honorable
mention of the conduct of Acting Masters Mate J. E. Sweeney, Peter
King, seaman, captain of forward pivot gun; Thomas Saddler, captain
top, and Charles J. Murphy, seaman. I would also mentiou the cool
conduct of Frank Wyatt, boatswains mate, captain of the after pivot
gun, and Edward Penney, captain of top and second captain of the
after gun.
	The Prince of Nagato, it appears, has commenced this war on his own
account, as he is one of the most powerful and influential of the prince

Page 394

394
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
of the Empire and bitterly opposed to foreigners, but the punishment
inflicted and in store for him will, I trust, teach him a lesson that will
not be soon forgotten.
	On the 7th instant the French dispatch steamer Kienehang, passing
through on her way to Shanghai, was fired on and considerably injure(l,
and on the 11th II. N. M. ship Medusa was also fired oil, and sustained
some damage and a loss of 4 men and 7 wounded.
	As soon as the outrage on the French steamer was known here the
French Admiral Jaur6s left with his flagship and a gunboat for Shimo-
noseki, and no doubt will complete the punishment due for the wanton
violation of existing treaties.
	The Jamestown was at Wusung oii the 16th, to sail immediately for
this port via Nagasaki. I shall await her arrival.
	I enclose a proximate plan of the straits, the position of the vessels
and shore batteries, and coarse, etc., all of which is respectfully sub-
mitted by
Your obedient servant,
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.
Ii. MCDOUGAL,
Gommander.
[Enclosures.]

APPROXIMATE POSITION OF JIATTERIES, SHIPS, ETC.

1.	where first signal gun was fired.
2.	Battery.
3.	Battery.
4.	Battery.
5.	Battery.
6.	Battery.
7.	Battery.
8.	Bark.
9.	Brig.
10.	Steamer.
11.	Steamer, position changed.
12.	Junks.
13.	wyoming.
14.	wyoming route

Page 395

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	395


U.	S. STEAM SLOOP WYOMING,
Inland Sea of Japan, July 17, 1863.
	Sm:	In consequence of the engagement with th~Japanese at Shimo-
nos6ki yesterday, I have to report the following casualties:

No.	Name.	Rate.	Remarks.
	1	Alexander Furlong	Marine	Killed.
	2	Win. Clark	Seaman	  Do.
	3	George Watson	Landsman	  Do.
	4	Michael Lynch	Coal heaver	  Do.
	5	James Carswell	Landsman	Very severely wounded; since dead.
	6	Andrew Wallace	Captain of afterguard	Very severely wounded.
	7	Win. Thompson	Seaman	  bo.
	8	Tho. Stewart	Landsman	Wounded.
	9	Michael Doyle	Marine	  Do.
	10	Wilson P. Snyder	Landsman	Slightly wounded.
	11	Chas. J. Murphy	Seaman	  Do.

	Total killed, 4; total wounded, 7.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
E. R. DENBY,
Surgeon, U. S. Navy.
	[Commander D. MCDOUGAL, U. S. Navy.]



CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES,
Shanghai, July 3, 1863.
	Before m~, George F. Seward, consul for the United States for
Shanghai, China, personally appeared Captain Simon W. Cooper,
Samuel W. Leavitt, engineer; J. L. Folsom, first assistant engineer, and
William Jones, second officer, all of whom are attached to the Ameri-
can steamer Pembroke in the several capacities mentioned, who, being
sworn, all depose:
	On the 26th ultimo, while we were pursuing our voyage from Yoko-
hama to Shanghai, via the Inland Sea and Nagasaki, we, then being
near the western entrance of the Inland Sea, were attacked by armed
Japanese Government vessels under the following circumstances:
	We left Yokohama on Sunday, the 21st ultimo; we proceeded as
above on the voyage to Shanghai. On the 25th ultimo, ~t 2 p. in.,
about, we passed a Japanese European-built bark; the bark was well
armed and full of men, but with no ensign set. After we had anchored
for the night, say at 4 p. in., the bark came down with a fair wind and
a Japanese flag flying; the flag was the same as those used on all Gov-
ernment war (vessels) steamers. Itis asquareflag, a whiteground with
a red ball in the center. The bark passed our vessel and anchored at
the head of the entrance straits, about a quarter of a mile away. As she
approached us a gun was fired from a bluff about 4 miles off, and the
signal was repeated all along the coast.
	During the evening she was worked around broadside to the wind
and to our vessel; at about 1 a. in. she commenced firing at us. We
could discern the vessel plainly and the position by the lightning,
although the night was very dark. After she had fired a dozen shots
(one of which cut away our topmast backstay and all passed close to
us), a brig, which we recognized as the former British brig Lanriek,
suddenly appeared, coming from windward. She passed about 40 yards
from us and dropped anchor close to the bark.
	Both vessels then fired as rapidly as they could load and discharge,
but we had got up steam and ran out of fire, escaping through th

Page 396

~96	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.

Bungo Channel, a narrow and unfrequented strait. We had to restrain
the native pilot, who attempted to escape. I)uring the attack many
lights were in motion on shore and tha noise of %many boats distinctly
heard by us. When the Launch passed us a terrific yell was raised
from both vessels. If her guns had been discharged at that moment
we should have been destroyed. Our guns were lashed, and we fired
no return shots, all our efforts being directed to getting underway.
	The Inland Sea is frequented by foreign vessels. We had no notice
that we should not make the voyage that way.
SIMON W. COOPER.
S.	W. LEAYITT.
J.	L. FOLSOM.
Wiw. JONES.

	Sworn and subscribed to before me the day of the year above
mentioned.
GEO. F. SEWARD,
U.	~. Consul.


Additional report of Commander XcDougal, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Wyoming.

U.	S. S. WYOMING,
Yokohama July 25, 1863.
	SIR: Admiral Jaur~s arrived at this place yesterday morning (24th),
having visited the Straits of Shimonos~ki.
	One of the ships, the Tancred, was fired on by the shore batteries.
He landed ~ force and destroyed one of the principal batteries, burn-
ing a town, and destroying large quantities of ammunition. They
mention that they saw a topmast of a sunken ship.
	As they did not approach nearer than 2 miles to where the vessels
lay, they could not have seen the damage done by this ship. The
admiral mentioned that he was informed that the steamer was on the
shore on the outside of the straits and badly injured, but I am satisfied
that she never moved from the position we left her in.
	Through the Japanese, reports were current and believed that when
the boilers exploded 40 lives were lost on boai d of the steamer.
	I enclose the copy of a dispatch from General Pruyn, which he had
given the French admiral for me. I would mention that it was my
intention to have returned with the admiral had I met him on his
passage down.
	The ministers of the different treaty powers are now in consultation
as to what future steps are to be taken in regard to existing affairs.
	Enclosed is an extra of the operations of the French.
	I hope the course I have pursued in vindicating the honor of the flag
may meet with your approval.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
P.	MODOTJGAL,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosure.]

LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES,
Yokohama, July 15, 1863.
	SIR: I avail myself of the (leparture of Rear-Admiral Jaur6s, with
th~ ~niro~ ami Talwr~i1, for t1~ Thh~1 ~, to inform you that II

Page 397

OPERATIONS 01? THE CRUISERSUNION.	397

I.	M. steamer Kienehang has been fired into by batteries of the Prince
of Tchoshu [Ch6shiu] or Nangata [Nagato] and the vessels which
fired at the Pembroke.
	I indulge in the hope that by the time this reaches you these piratical
vessels will have been destroyed or captured. If so, you may have
been attacked by these batteries, and have doubtless demolished these
[them]. Should those ships have unfortunately taken the alarm and
escaped, I would recommend that you do not return without vindica-
ting our flag and taking full satisfaction for the outrage upon it; and
I beg you to co-operate with Admiral Jaur6s in the destruction of the
batteries and forts in the territories of that prince, thus giving a lesson
which will not soon be forgotten, and which will put a stop to the acts
of lawless violence which the hostile daimios, encouraged by the
humane forbearence of the treaty powers, are so ready to commit.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ROBERT H. PRUYN,
Minister Resident in Japan.
	[Commander B. McT)oUGAL, U. S. Navy.]

Abstract Log U. S. S. Wyoming, Commander David KeDongal, U. S. Navy, commanding, July

13 to 16, 1863.

	July 13, 1863.At 4:45 a. m. called all hands and shortened in on the
port chain. At 5 weighed the port anchor and steamed ont of the
harbor of Yokohama, in charge of the pilot, Mr. ileco; interpreter
came off to accompany us.
	July 15.At 9:40 p. rn. came to on the sonth side of ilermisima
[lime Sima] Island.
	July 16.At anchor under the Island of Hermisima [lime Sima].
At 4:40 a. m. called all hands; at 5 weighed anchor and steamed
toward the Straits of Shimonos~ki. At 9 went to general quarters,
loaded the pivot guns with shell, and cleared the ship for action. At
10:45 entered the Shimonos~ki Straits and beat to quarters. On enter.
ing, three signal guns were fired from the batteries on shore on the
starboard hand. Immediately two shots were fired at us from the first
battery, one of the shots cutting away the starboard main swifters,
upon which we hoisted colors and opened fire in return. ln passing
through the straits we engaged six batteries. One steamer,* 1 bark,
and 1 brig I, all flying the Japanese colors at the peak and the flag of
Prince Choshio~ at the fore, were lying in the
straits. They also opened fire on ns, which we ri -~
returned. After passing all the batteries and [~~j
vessels we returned and engaged them a second
time, engines being slowed and stopped at inter-	B L
vals according to the captains orders. At 12:10 (~ 
p.	m. stopped firing and steamed out from under kCY ~y
the batteries, having been one hour and ten min-
utes under fire. At 5:20 p. m. let go port anchor Green or blue ~round,
in 5~ fathoms under the island of ilermisima and white ha s and
Illime Sima]. From 6 to 8 p. m. all hands busy P
repairing damages. At 9:30 called all hands to

quarters, supposing we saw a vessel approaching. At 9:50 discovered
it was not a vessel, and piped down.
~ 1 steamer, Sancifield, cost $115,000.
t 1 brig, Saurick, cost $20,000.
	Matz-daira-Daizeu-no Daibo, Jrosino-Chioojoo or Prince Choshio, City of Hangee
[Hangsej, annual rental of 369,000 kokue of rice, or $1,383,750

Page 398

398	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	On the morning of July 16, at about 11 a. in., with about 14 pounds
pressure of steam on the boilers, making about 50 revolutions, tide
running to the eastward, sails furled, topgallant yards aloft, spare
tiller shipped, all small arms loaded, men at quarters and armed, entered
the straits leading to the town of Shimonos6ki. As we passed the head-
land on the starboard hand a gun was fired from a masked battery,
which was repeated by two other batteries to the westward. At about
11:15 a. in., in passing one of the batteries, a shot was fired at us, and
a second, which cut away forward main swifter (starboard side).
Hoisted our colors and opened fire in return with XJ-inch shell from
pivot guns and solid shot from broadside guns, starboard battery being
manned. Continued steaming ahead for a bark, brig, and steamer at
anchor off the town of Shimonos~ki (having Japanese colors flying), and
received a fire from four batteries, consisting of two to four guns each,
returning their fire with shell as fast as the guns could be brought to
bear~ In passing the bark she poured a broadside into us (she being
on the starboard hand), which was returned as soon as the guns were
in position. In passing the brig exchanged broadsides with her, and
gave the steamer the two port 32-pounders. The vessel was then run
for the southern shore for the purpose of taking up a position at anchor,
but the commander decided not to anchor; so, after some maneuvering,
the vessels head was put to the eastward. The Japanese steamer in
the meantime slipped her cable and started ahead. As soon as the
port battery could be brought to bear we succeeded in placing two
XI-inch shells and one or more 32-pound shot and shell in the steamer,
which disabjed her. The two XI-inch shells struck her in the wake of
the boilers and machinery, as was proved by the vessel being imme-
diately enveloped in steam and smoke, her machinery apparently being
stopped and the vessel ashore. We then steamed past the brig and
bark, firing into them from our port battery and landing a few shell in
the shore batteries. At 12:25 p. m. we steamed out of the Straits of
Shimonos~ki into the Suwo r~Tada, havii~g passed and repassed the fire
of six batteries, four to the eastward and two to the westward of the
three vessels mentioned, having been under fire about one hour and ten
minutes. The armament of the Japanese vessels appeared to be brass
24 or 32 pounders, the bark mounting 6, brig 8, and steamer 2. The
Japanese used 32-pound shell from the shore batteries and 24-pound
shot, shrapnel, and grape; also from the vessels small arms and swivels.
	The following are the casualties sustained by this ship during the
engagement:
KILLED.
Win. Clark, seaman, first division, sta-	Alex. W. Furlong, corporal, marines, sta-
 ~ioned on forecastle, struck by a round	 tioned in gangway, struck in chest and
 shot.	 bowels by piece of iron plate.
Geo. Watson, landsman, stationed ou	Michael Lynch, landsman, stationed at
 forecastle, struck by shell in chest and	 forward gun, both legs carried away
 bowels.	 by round shot.

wOUNDED.
Win. Thompson, seaman, captain of for-	Chas. J. Murphy, seaman, forward gun,
 ward gun, left forearm shattered by	 toes of left foot bruised.
 shell.	Wilson Snyder, landsman, forward gun,
Jas. Caswell, landsman, forward gun,	 bruised oa left arm.
 left hand shot away, left leg lacerated,	Thos. Stewart, laudsman, stationed at
 and body badly bruised by shell.	 fore hatch to receive powder, struck by
Andrew Wallace, left forearm shattered;	 piece of shell just outside the process
 left leg shattered by shell.	 of frontal bone.
Michael Doyle, corporal marines, abreast
 of mainmast, struck by fragment of
 shell in right leg

Page 399

399
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

DAMAGES TO ShIP.
.Jib and fore-topgallant stay shot away.
Both forestays shot away.
Starboard fore-topmast stay shot away.
Setting-up screws to starboard fore-
swifter shot away.
Setting-up screws to second shroud to
port fore rigging shot away.
Starboard main swifter shot away.
Port maintop. and topgallant backstays
shot away.
Starboard middle shroud to mizzen rig-
ging shot away.
Starboard forelift shot away.
Main deck awning separated by shot.
Starboard main tacks and sheets shot
away.
Jib halliards and port forebraces shot
away.
Starboard fore clew garnet and buntlines
shot away.
Fore-topgallant halliards shot away.
Fore-trysail and outhauls, starboard
ridge-rope shot away.
Shot hole through main trysail.
Carpenters department:
Starboard side
1 shot in head through upper edge
of plank sheer forward of cat-
head, passing through and
slightly injuring heel of bow-
sprit.
1	throu~h waterways, carrying
away water-closet.
1	through waterway 10 feet abaft
topgallant forecastle.
1	in waist at gangway.
Port	side
1 shot in head well forward, in
first strake below plank slicer
in wake of forechains.
Carpenters departmentContinued.
Port sideC~ntinued.
1	in thirli strake below plank-
sheer at forward side of for-
ward pivot-gun port.
1	through hammock netting in
wake of fore rigging.
1	shot hit forward side of mizzen-
mast, slightly, about 25 feet
above deck.
1	pivot hammock netting badly
damaged while lying on deck
amidships.
1	awning stanchion and spare
spar or boom gallows shot
away.
Mainmast damaged in one place
and foremast in four.
1	shot under the counter.
Engineers department:
3	shots through smokestack and 1
bunker-shute grating broken by
shot.
Gunners department:
Used 6 5-sec. XI-inch shell, 14 10-sec.
XI-iuch shell, 3 15-sec. XI-inch
shell, 23 15-pound charges, 4 5-sec.
32-pounder shell, 6lOsec. 32-pound-
er shell, 6 15-sec. 32-pounder shell,
16 solid 32-pound shot, 32 ordinary
firing charges of 5 pounds each, 2
rifle muskets, stocks broken, 1 rifle
musket damaged by musket ball
striking the barrel, 2 side tackles
shot away at starboard forward
broadside gun, 1 train tackle shot
away at forward starboard broad-
side gun, 1 train lever broken by a
shot.

	Expended 100 rounds of musket-ball cartridges, 50 of Sharps rifle
ball cartridges, 50 pistol-ball cartridges, 50 revolver cartridges, and
200 percussion caps.
GEG. W. YOUNG,

Lieutenant:Commander, Executive Officer.



[Telegram.]

(JIJARLESTOWN, MASS., July 17, 1863.
(Received at Washington 3:5 p. in.)
	Is the Tuscarora to proceed in search of the Florida, as directed by
Departments telegram of the 8th instant? She is now ready for sea.
The Aries can be ready by Wednesday next.

J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES

Page 400

400	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
[Tele,rain.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 17, 1863.

	Have the Tuscarora ready to move at a niinute~s notice. If you hear
of the whereabouts of any privateer, dispatch the Tuscarora in iinme-
diate pursuit without waiting for orders from the I)epartment.

GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.
	Commodore J. B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant Navy Yard, Boston Mass.


Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to the governor of Massachusetts

regarding protection of the Massachusetts coast.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 18, 1863.

	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter* of
the 16th instant, with the accompanying papers from Provincetown.
	The authorities of the latter place ask that a vessel of sufficient
capacity to repel any rebel invasion may lie seuit to our harbor as early
as possible, to give us protection until some other meaiis are adopted
for our protection by fortifications or otherwise, and the committee
add, something ought to have beeu done teii years ago. it can not
be expected that a vessel will be stationed at every exposed and
neglected point until fortifications can be erected. Many applications
are made, however, and aware of the peculiar condition of Province-
town, I exjiressed a desire in my last to conform to the views of
yourself and others whether a cruiser should be stationed at Boston or
Provincetown.
	As regards the latter place and many others, there can be no diffi-
culty in throwing up earthworks. The rebels rapidly construct sea
batteries such as would afford ample protectioti against any wooden
vessel like the Alabama, and the State aid municipal anthorities must
depend upon themselves tThiefiy rather than the incidental aid of the
Navy for their defuses.
	In reference to a cruiser to be stationed at Boston and to your letter
of the 2d of May on that subject. I have to state that at no tinie sluce
the 1st of May has Boston been without at least one fast steamer, and
generally there have been four or five in that harbor, except dnring the
brief period when in pursuit of the. Tacony and other reported priva-
teers on the coast.
Very respectfully,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	His Excellency JOHN A. ANDREW,
Governor of Massachusetts.


Report of Captain Greene, U. S. Navy, senior officer present, West India
Squadron, of the need of repairs to the U. S. S. Mereedita, and orders
given to her commanding officer in view thereof.

U.	S. S. SANTIAGO DE CUBA,
Cape Haitien, July 22, 1863.
	SIR: On my arriva.l here on the 23d of June last a survey was being
held on the condition of the U. S. S. Mercedita, ordered by Commander
See pp. 347, 348

Page 401

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNiON.	401

Trenchard, the report of which was forwarded to the Navy Department,
approved by myself as senior officer present.
	Expecting the arrival of Acting Rear-Admiral tardner almost daily,
I did not feel authorized to send the ]Iifercedita home at the time.
	One jnonth having elapsed, the admiral not having made his appear-
ance and the vessel being unable to perform the duty assigned to her
by the Department on accouiit of the leak, I have ordered her corn-
nander to proceed to Port Royal, taking Commander Wyman (late of
this ship) as passenger to that port, and on his arrival to report the
same and the state of his vessel to the Navy Department, and there to
await your orders.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
THEo. P. GREENE,
(Japtaiu and Senior Officer Present.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washjngton, D. C



Report of Commander Preble, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship St.
Louis, of the expected appearance of a suspicious steamer in the Miedi-
terranean.

U.	S. SLOOP OF WAR ST. Louis,
Algeciras, July 22, 1363.
	SIR: This ship has been ready for sea the last faur or five days, and
I have intended to sail for Mog~idor, at the request of our consul at
Tangier, and thence to Madeira, in pursuance of my projected cruise,
but have been detained by westerly winds blowing through the straits,
against which and the indraft current this and, iii fact, no sailing ship
is capable of beating.
	Last evening I received the following telegram from consul at Cadiz:

[Translation.]

The rebel steamer named Southerner is expected very soon in the Mediterranean.
E.	S. EGGLESTON,
U.	S. Consul.

	I immediately telegraphed our consul at Lisbon to inform the com-
manders of the Kearsarge and Macedonian, if possible, and personally
communicated with our consul for Gibraltar at his residence at Campo,
on the bay, who telegraphed his house at Marseilles to inform the Gon-
stellation. In view of this news I shall remain in this neighborhood,
cruising, when the winds will permit, in the strait to convoy American
merchautmen beyond immediate danger until I hear further of the
movements of the Southerner or the arrival of some other vessel of our
Navy.
	The St. Louis can do little at catching a large and fast steamer like
this rebel vessel if disposed to shun her, or at engaging her success-
fully if proportionately armed, but I will do what I can to cripple,
capture, or destroy her if she appears, and can certainly protect, under
our guns and convoy, any merchant ship. There is now at Gibraltar
the American ship iT. D. Peters, of [Bucksport, Me.], bound for Callao.
I propose in that way to assist.
	N W RYOL II	2

Page 402

402	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	One or more fast and well-armed steamers stationed constantly here
or at Cadiz and Lisbon, to whom news could be flashed by telegraph,
would be a security to our commerce and of gre~ service. Unfortu-
nately at this time only sailing vessels can be communicated with, the
Kearsarge being at the islands. In winds like those we are having a
steamer might destroy a nmerchantman in sight of bat beyond the guns
of a sailing vessel of war without her being able to prevent it.
	We have heard of the victories which God has granted to onr armies
ii	Pennsylvania, at Yicksburg, and in the West, and are jnbilant over
the news, while the Bulls on the Rock are proportionally incredulous
and glum.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEO. HENRY PREBLE,
Commander U
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Memorial of the New York Chamber of Commerce to the Secretdry of the
Navy regarding protection of shipping interests of the United States.

NEW YORK, July 22, 1863.

	This memorial of the Chamber of Commerce of the State of New
York respectfully represents, that the interests of the commercial com-
munity of tile United States, and especially of that part of it directly
engaged in shipping, demand in the present state of affairs more ade-
quate protection thau is now afforded.
	The mercantile classes of the United States, the commercial cities of
the seaboard, can rightly claim to be second to none in self-sacrifice,
patriotism, and devotion to the Government and nation, amid feel that
they are fully entitled to every effort on the part of the Government to
provide for their security. That the efforts hitherto made have not
been effectual is shown by the fact that 15() vessels, including two
steamers, representing a tonnage of upward of 60,000 tons and a value
of over $12,000,000, have been captured by the rebel privateers Alabama,
Florida, Georgia, and the vessels seized and armed by them. Nor is
this the greatest damage which has been inflicted on American com-
merce. The consequence of these captures has been so to enhance the
cost of insurance that the war premium alone on American vessels
carrying valuable cargoes exceeds the whole freight charged by vessels
sailing nuder neutral flags. The result is, that either American ships
lie idle at our own and foreign ports, unable to procure freights, and are
thus practically excluded from the carrying trade, or are transferred to
foreign flags. Thus the American flag, the pride of the nation and
once the emblem of its power to protect cargo and passenger on every
sea, is dishonored and in disrepute or is withdrawn from the seas.
	The Chamber of Commerce, in view of these facts, respectfully
endorses the application made to you by the merchants of Bostomi for
an adequate naval force, solely under the authority of the Govern-
meut, to protect our European trade and our fisheries, and for the
detail of two or three powerful and fast vessels of war to protect these
interests, and of one or two smaller vesselssteamersto time Gulf of St.
Lawrence; and this chamber further respectfully asks that adequat

Page 403

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	403

naval protection be also given to vessels sailing in the direction of the
West Indies or crossing the line bonnd to the Brazils or by either of
the great capes.
	[SEAL.]	W~. E. DODGE,
Vice-President.
JOHN AUSTIN STEVENS, Jr.,
Secretary.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy of the United States.



Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. ]Jliohican, of
arrival at Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from cruise in search of Confederate
vessels, transmitting letters to U. S. minister at that place regarding
treatment of U. S. vessels in port of Santa Catharina, Brazil.

U.	s. s. MOHICAN,
Rio, July 23, 1863.
	SIR:	I have to report [to] the honorable Secretary of the Navy that I
have returned to this place after a cruise of fifteen days in search of
the piratical vessels withont seeing or learning anything of their
movements. During my crnise I visited the ports of Santos and Santa
Catharina, and herewith enclose to the honorable Secretary of the Navy
duplicate letkers Nos. 1 and 2 to his Excellency James Watson Webb,
our minister at iRio, by which you will see that I was refused coal and
provisions and forbidden having any communication with American
vessels at Santa Catharina. Since that time all restrictions have been
taken off, and we can now have coal and provisions in any port in
Brazil, and the governor of Santa Catharina will be removed for his
gross outrage. The correspondence between our minister a~nd the
minister of foreigii affairs at Rio I presume will be forwarded to the
honorable Secretary of State as soon as practicable.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. GLISSoN,
Captain, U. S. Navy,
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosure No. 1.]

U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Rio, July 23, 1863.
	SIR:	Since my departure from this port I have visited the ports of
Santos and Santa Catharina, and was informed by the governor and
commanding officer at Fort Santa Cruz, at Santa Catharina, that I could
only remain twenty-four hours in that port. At my second interview,
at 8 p. m. on the 16th instant, in company with the American cousnl,
the governor informed me that we could have fresh provisons for the
ship, but as soon as we left him he sent word to the person who was to
furnish them that under no circumstances was he to furnish the
U. S. S. ]Jiliohiean with fresh provisions. This was the statement of Mr.
Catheart, who was to furnish the provisions, and said that lie had
received the order after our interview at 8 p. in., and we had to leav

Page 404

404	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

without obtaining them at the expiration of the twenty-four hours. 1
also stated to the commauding officer that I should probably require
coal, and he luformed me that I would not be alh~ved to take iu coal
unless I brought an order emanating from his Imperial Majesty at IRio
to that effect. If this is to be the policy of Brazil toward oar squadron
oti this coast, I fear that it will not be in my power to render that
assistance to our commerce and citizens that should be extended to
them. We have 1,600 tons of coal at Santa Catharina, and of course it
is of no use to us if we are not allowed to take it on bo rd, and in a short
time I shall be perfectly helpless for the want of coal and provisious.
	I hope your Excellency will bring this subject before his Imperial
Majestys Government, and have our squadron placed on the same
footing as the most favored nations.
	Enclosed you have a translation of a letter to the U. S. consul at
Sautos from the commanding officer at that port.
I am, very respeetfally, your obedient servant,
0.	S, GLISSON,
Captxin, U. AS1~ Navy.
His Excellency JAMES WATSON WEBB,
Minister Plenipotentiary to the Court of Brazil.

[Enclosure No. 2.]

U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Rio de Janeiro, July 23, 18635 p. rn.
	SIR: I ha~e to state to your Excellency that while at Santa Catha-
rina his Excellency the governor of Fort Santa Cruz forbid our having
any intercourse with the American ships then in port, and also ordered
that we should have no communication with the shore. As he after-
wards stated to the American consul and myself that he was under the
impression that my ship was the Alaba~~a,and believing that his Excel-
lency was sincere in his statement, I readily overlooked it, and said that
I would make no report of the fact. His Excellency then said that I
could communicate with the ships and the shore, and have fresh pro-
visions or anything except coal. I then took leave of his Excellency.
It was then nearly Sp. m. After that time he countermanded the order
for fresh provisions, as Mr. Catheart assured me when 1 sent on shore
to order them to be sent off to the ship at daylight the next morning.
	In sending to your Excellency yesterday a copy of a letter from the
military commander of the city of Santos, I should have stated that
our consul reported to inc that the captain of the port of Santos had
said to him and my first lieutenant that the ]lifohican had no right what-
ever to enter the port of Santos unless from stress of weather or abso-
lutely necessary repairs, and that we could not stay iu port more than
twenty-four hours and, further, that, according to instructions from
the Imperial Government, all the United States war vessels during
this war were to be considered on an equal footing with the piratical
cruisers Georgia and Florida. I therefore put the question direct to
the military commander of the city whether he intended, as reported
to our consul by the captain of the port, to place the war vessels of
the United States on the same footing as the piratical cruisers Florida
and Georgia, and his answer was, in presence of the consul and others,
I do. At my request the consul theu addressed him a letter, in
order to have his reply in writing. That reply is a dishonorable
quibble. He neither denies nor admits the language used to mc, bu

Page 405

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	405

says that other persons who went with me on board said so. I
make this supplemental report to show your Excellency everything that
occurred while at Santa Catharina.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. GLIsSoN,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
His Excellency JAS. WATSON WEBB,
Minister Plenipotentiary to the Court of Brazil.



Letter from Captain Glisson, U. S. Nary, commanding U. S. S. Mohican,
trans~nitting copies of correspondence exchanged in the harbors of Santos
and Santa Catharina, Brazil.
U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Bio July 23, 1863.
	SIR:	I herewith enclose you copies of my letters to our consuls at
Santos and Santa Catharina, with their answers, and also a letter from
the military governor at Santos, and also a copy of oar consuls letter
to the same officer.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secret~ry of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosures.]

U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Santos, July 11, 1863.
	SIR:	I have this moment anchored in this port and am in chase of
the Alabama, Flo~ida, and Georgia, or any others that may have bean
fitted out as privateers on this coast. Will you do inc the favor to give
me all the information you may have in relation to the movements of
these vessels ~ My boat is at your service, and I shall be glad to wel-
come you on board of the Mohican.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
CHARLES F. BE VIVALDI,
U. S. Consul, Santos.



CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES,
At Santos, Brazil, July 11, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your dispatch,
announcing to me your arrival at this port, the important object of
your cruise in these waters, and requesting me t communicate to you
any information I might have about the rebel pirates Alabama, Florida,
and Georgia, etc.
	No later intelligence has reached here about them than that pub.
lished in Rio de Janeiros newspapers while you were there. The Ala-
bama has been expected to arrive here at any moment by the rebel
sympathizers of this place for the last thirty-five or forty (lays. There
is no coal here. Considering the great proximity of this port to Rio d

Page 406

406	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Janeiro, whence supplies of all kinds can be procured, the great facility
of access for all kinds of vessels, and the great we~ kness of our harbors
defenses, and also the moral feebleness of the local authorities to oppose
the entrance of the Alabama here, 1 am of the impression that this
pirate will at an early day visit this city.
	Offering myself entirely at your command,
Yours, very resJ)ectfully,
CHAS. F. DE VIVALDI,

U.	&#38; Consul.
	Captain 0. S. GLISSON, U. S. Navy,
Present.


CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES,
AS~antos, July 12, 18G3.
	SIR: In conversation with you yesterday, the captain of the U. S. S.
Mohican ~nd myself nuderstood you to say that the U. S. S. Mohi can
would only be allowed twenty-four hoars in port, thereby placing us
on the same footing with the Florida and Georgia. If such is the fact,
will you be pleased to state it to us in writing ~
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHAS. F. DE VIVALDI,
U.	k. Consul.
His Excellency MARECHAL DE LISBOA
Military Commandant, City of Santos.


[Translation.]

HEADQUARTERS OF THE MILITARY COMMAND
OF THE CITY OF SANTOS,
July 12, 1868.
	MOST ILLUSTRIOUS SIR: I have just received your dispatch, in
which you tell me that in conversation with me yesterday the captain
of the U. S. S. ]iliohiean and yourself understood me to say that the
same Mohican would only be allowed twenty-four hours in port, thus
placing you on the same footing with the Florida and Georgia, and if
such is the fact that I should state so in writing.
	To which I answer, that other persons who went with me on board
said so, and that I said and repeated that I was satisfied with the decla-
ration made to me by the above-mentioned captain of the ]lfohi can, that
he would leave to day or to-morrow morning. This my determination
was prompted by the conviction in which I am that his Excellency the
president of this province will approve of this my maniier of proceed.
ing. The instructions which I hold emanated from the Imperial Gov-
ernment demark [define] with recognized justice the rules of neutrality
which the Empire has adopted for itself in relation to the war of the
North American Union, and in fact cases do really exist in which ves-
sels of war like the Mohican would be subjected to the same conditions
of the privateers armed by the Confederates in order to be able to
maintain the above-mentioned neutrality.
May God, etc.,
HENRIQUE MARQUES D~OLIva LISBOA,
Fiel Marechal.
	Most Illustrious Seiior CHAS. F. DE VIVALDI,
U.	AS~. Consul

Page 407

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	407


U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Santa Catharina [Brazil], July 16, 1863.
	SIR: I have this moment anchored in this port and am in chase of
the Alabama, Florida, and Georgia, or any others that may have been
fitted out as privateers on this coast.
	Will you do me the favor to give me all the information you may
have in relation to the movements of these vessels and whether they
have any arrangements for coaling at this port~ My boat is at your
service, and I shall be glad to welcome yon on board of the Mohi can,
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
B.	LINDSEY,
U.	S. Consul, Santa Cat harina.


CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Santa Catharina [Brazil], July 16, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
this date, informing [me] of yonr arrival at this port, and desiring from
me any intelligence that I may be able to communicate relating to the
whereabouts of the rebel cruisers Alabama, Florida, or others.
	In this reply I can only state that no authentic information concern-
ing any of these privateers has come into my possession later than that
recently furnished in the journals of Rio de Janeiro previous to your
departure from that place.
	Within a few days past a report has been current in this place that
the privateer Alabama has been reported off the southern part of this
island, but I have not been able to trace it to any reliable source, and
presume that it has no more foundation in fact than other reports
which from time to time have been current here.
	I am, sir, with the highest respect, your obedient servant,
B.	LINDSEY,
Consul.
	Captain 0. 5. GLISSoN, U. S. Navy,
On Board U. S. S. Mohican.


Report of Commander Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Van-
derbilt, of cruise of that vessel from June 21 to July 23, 1863, and the
burning of the Confederote armed bark [Oreto, or Lapwing*], tender to
fite C. S. S. Florida, by her own officers and crew, off Barbados, June
20, 1863.
U. S. S. VANDERBILT,
Rio de Janeiro, July 23, 1863.
	SIR: I last had this honor on the 21st June, dated off Barbados.
	I communicated with the consul there who informed me [that] on the
afternoon previous six men and two persOl5 claiming to be officers came
on shore in a small boat, having burned a vessel in the offing. He only
knew they reported that the vessel was coal laden, had been captured
by the Florida, and had been told to cruise in a certain latitude and
longitude (nnknown). They had done so for thirty days, and failing to
find the Florida and being out of provisions, had burned their vessel
See journals of C. S. S. Florida and C. S. bark Oreto, or Lapwing, following

Page 408

408	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

and came on shore at Barbados. The name of the vessel they would
not tell. As I could not be of any service in this matter, I continued
my way to the line and to this coast, keeping in the track of homeward-
bound vessels.
	I spoke several vessels north of the line, and on the 3d July, in 10
40 S., spoke the French mail steamer, two days out from Pernambuco.
Got nothing later of importance, except that the privateers had been a
short time previous both at Pernambuco and Bahia.
	On the 4th July communicated with the governor of Fernando de
Koronha, who seemed to be quite friendly. I need hardly report the
news obtained here, since you have undoubtedly ere this heard it.
	I then went over to Pernambuco, making the coast well up toward
Cape St. IRoque, and arriving at I~ernamiibuco on the night of the 6th,
I communicated with our consul there, to again find we had beeu fated
to come. on this coast some three weeks too late. I sailed the next day
with the intention of cruislug along the coast as long as my coal lasted
arid themi going in Bahia, but a few miles off the harbor spoke the
American ship Gity of Bath, from Cahlao, bound to Antwerp, with
guano. She had on board the crew of the American ship Constitution,
coal laden, from Philadelphia bound for Shanghai. Both ships had
been captured by the pirate Gcorgia and takeu to the island of Trini-
dad, about 800 miles 5. 5. E. from Pernamubuco, when the former ship
was ransomed for a bond of $20,000. Cargo was foreign property. He
reported having left the island six days previous; that the Ueorgia was
intended to coal from the Constitation. with the ships boats; that with
the constant swell it would be very slow work, and that we stood a
good chance of finding her there, and that the talk among the rebel
crew was that the Alabama was also expected there daily.
	You may believe, sir, we lost not a moment in getting to the island,
and with the hope that at length fortune was kind. We had to steam
against strong S. E. trade wind and large sea, but arrived there the
fourth morning at break of day; but nothing was to be seen. I
attempted to land, but the surf was too great, and 1 can hardly believe
coaling to any practical extent is possible there. I went around the
island and sighted Martin Vaz Rocks, and as my coal was now ramming
quite low, had to come over to this port, 800 miles distant. About 30
miles B. by S. from the island passed through mncim charred and burned
stuff, evidently remains of a vessel, and fromn the usual current there I
have little doubt it was the remains Qf the Constitution. On my way
over I spoke several vessels, but got miothing new. The foregoing is
the last heard of the Georgma.
	The Alabama spoke a foreign vessel two degrees to the eastward of
thins on the 17th June. 1 hear nothing later of her, while the Florida,
I think there is little doubt, has gone to the North Atlantic or West
Imidies again.
	I arrived here on the 14th, and with very little coal left. At once I
saw the consul, and found there was. say, 2,100 tons Government coal
here, but that there was some difficulty in getting it, as the person in
whose charge it had been placed on storage had notified the consul he
intended to hold it as security for somne rent or contract made with him
by our naval storekeeper somne two years since. Fortunately our min-
ister, General Webb, was in town, who, acting at once with energy,
demanded and obtained the coal, and I was enabled to commence tak-
ing in a supply the next day.
	As I write I have just finished coaling, having taken in nearly 1,200
tons. The coal is very convenmently placed on an island across the bay

Page 409

409
OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSUNION.
4 miles from town and alongside the storehouse built under the contract
above referred to, but it has been exposed to the air and sun a long
time, and is very dirty indeed.
	As I had occasion to report to the Department some time since, my
boilers require a good deal of patching, having several times let up on
us while underway, and only the other day scalded a fireman. This is
only the lower sheets of the boiler fronts, and in New York could be
completely repaired in from four to five weeks. Then the boilers would
be as good as new except, as I have before reported, the tubes, two-
thirds of which have beemi in since the ship first rami. These are so thin
that we dare not attempt to scale them, and consequently the increased
consumption of coal has become quite sermous.
	My chief engineer reports that with five to seven days more work on
the boilers we can get along for the next two months possibly, but in
two days more, if any intelligence should arrive here of either of the
rebel vessels, I shall be off in some shape in twelve hours after know-
ing of it. I have purchased some provisions here, and now have three
months stores from the 1st August.
	During the month of August the time of some 40 of the crew expires,
and during September and October the time of some 75 more. The
time of some half-dozen men is already out. I can only hope that suc-
cess may crown our efibrts before the state of the boilers, etc., shall ren-
der it necessary for the ship to return With all the energy I possess
I shall continue to work to that end.
	Of course I can not say positively in what direction 1 propose moving;
this will be dependent on the imiformation Imay receive. Mypresentidea
is, in the abs~nce of any information of the rebel whereabouts, to leave
this [place] at the e~irliest monment the work omi my boilers will permit
to cruise off the coast for a fexv days and then go to Bahia, that place,
I think, beimig more central than this, and I do not) believe that any of
the rebel vessels will come here.
	The Brazilian authorities seem exceedingly well inclined to us and
our course. At Bahia it is understood the rebels have some coal and
powder.
	The Mohi can arrived here last night and reports that at Santos they
were required to leave the port in twenty-four hours and at St. Cath-
erens [Santa Catharina] the provincial authorities refused to allow
theni to take on board our own coal lying there.
	I presume Captain Glissons report will reach you at the same time
as this, but as he started this muorning for Petuopolis to see our minister
in relation to the matter, it is just possible his letters may not go for-
ward in this mail. I do [noti at all doubt that General Webb will at
once put our matters on a proper footing, as I look upon it as time action
of the provincial and not of the Imuperial Goverumnent. Ilere at Bahia,
Pernambuco, and Fernando de Noronha, from what I can learn, timey
are well disposed to us. It is well to settle a matter of this importance
to our vessels on this coast at once.
	I would respectfully suggest that provisions and stores generally are
much higher on this coast than the prices at homne, with freight, etc.,
added.
	Coal is plenty at present at all the ports, and the price not excessive,
say about $11 to ~ 12 per cardiff, payable in gold, of course.
	I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. II. BALDWIN,
Commander, U. ~. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
&#38; eretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 410

410	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.


Report of Commander Parrott, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Augusta, of cruise for the protection of commerce in the vicinity of
	Yantucket Shoals.	~. ~. S. AUGUSTA,

Provincetown Harbor, Mass., July 24, 1863.
	SIR:	II have the honor to inform the Department that we have
received information from vessels boarded atid from other sources that
on the 12th instant a propeller, painted black, square rigged forward
and fore-and-aft rigged on the main and mizzen mast, was seen near
No Mans Land, and on the 15th a tliree-masted propeller, painted
black, about 20 miles to the southward and westward of Montauk
Point. This might have been the same vessel with her yards sent
down. They were both large, and from their movements evidently
cruising. On the 13th, schooner Chronometer was fired upon by a
steamer which she afterwards lost sight of in the fog. Her description
I have been unable to get. The locality was the same as that of the
last-mentioned vessel. On the 20th a large number of barrels of lard
were picket up in the neighborhood of Gay Head and No Mans Land.
I had them examined, and they evidently belonged to a vessel destroyed
by fire; had not been long in the water, but might have come from the
bng seen on fire near the Rienzi on the 8th instant. Jn consequence of
this information and these indications I have cruised in the neighbor-
hood and to the southward and eastward of Mon tank Point, Gay Head,
and the Nantucket South Shoals light-ship and to the eastward of
Nantucket Shoals.
	We arrived here yesterday evening, and are now leaving, and pur-
pose resumtng our cruising to the eastward and southward of Nan.
tucket Shoals and the vicinity. I find the people here somewhat
excited at the chances of a visit from rebel steamers. I do not think
these chances very great, but greater than those of any other port in
this vicinity. Some of the reasons are: It is more easy of access than
any other port; large number of fishing vessels are often here; it is a
flourishing place, on which a pretty large con tribntion~might be levied,
and it has no railroad communication. This would be a good head-
quarters for one of our vessels, which could do serviceable cruising in
the neighborhood and give the place comparative security. A vessel
which left Georges Shoals on the 22d instant reports seeing no priva-
teers and but few fishing vessels; fogs had been almost constant. We
also have been most of the time in fogs, in which a vessel might be
destroyed by night or day near one of our cruisers without its being
perceived.
Jam, respectfully, your obedient servant,E. G. PARROTT,

Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Letter from the President of the United States to the Secretary of the
Navy, suggesting additional rules for the government of U. S. naval
commanders in regard to captures.

EXECUTIVE MANSION,
Washington, July 25, 1863.
	SIR:	Certain matters have come to my notice, and considered by me,
which induce me to believe that it will conduce to the public interes

Page 411

411
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS-UNION.
for you to add to the general instructiolis given to our naval corn-
inanders, in relation to contraband trade, propositions substantially
as follows, to wit:
	First. You will avoid the reality, and, as far as possible, the appear-
atice, of using any neutral port to watch neutral vessels, and then to
dart out and seize them on their dcpartnre.
	NOTE.Complaint is made that this has been practiced at the port
of St. Thomas, which practice, if it exists, is disapproved and must
cease.
	Second. You will not, in any case, detain the crew of a captured
neutral vessel, or any other subject of a neutral power, on board such
vessel, as prisoners of war or otherwise, except the small number neces-
sary as witnesses in the prize court.
	NoTE.The practice here forbidden is also charged to exist, which,
if true, is disapproved and must cease~
	My dear sir, it is not intended to be insinuated that you have been
remiss in the performance of the arduous and responsible duties of
your Department, which I take pleasure in affirming has, in your hands,
been conducted with admirable sn ecess; yet, while your subordinates
are, almost of necessity, brought into angry collision with the subjects
of foreign states, the representatives of those states and yourself do
not come into immediate contact, for the purpose of keeping the peace,
in spite of such collisions. At that point there is an ultimate and
heavy responsibility upon me.
	What I propose is in strict accordance with international law, and is
therefore unobjectionable, while, if it do no other geod, it will contrib-
ute to sustain a considerable portion of the present British ministry
in their places, who, if displaced, are sure to be replaced by others more
unfavorable to us.
	Your obedient servant,	ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

Hon. SECRETARY OF THE NAVY.



Report of the commandant navy yard, Boston, of the arrival at that port
of the U. S. steamers Cambridge and Montgomery.
COMMANDANTS OFFICE, U. S. NAVY YARD,
Boston, July 2G, 1863. -
	SIR:	The U. S. steamers Cambridge and Montgomery arrived at this
port last evening from a cruise.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding West
india Squadron, of the location of the vessels of his command.
FLAGSHIP TICONDEROGA,
Cape Haitien, July 26, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the position of the West India
Squadron at this time:
	Ticonderoga, Commander Win. Itouckendorif, flagship, arrived yes-
terday from St. Thomas

Page 412

412	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	Mercedita, Lieutenant-Commander George IXI. Thinsom, sailed to a
Northern port on the 23d instant, upon the recommendation of a survey,
being in a leaky comlition.
	Juniata, Co minander J. M. B. Clitz, has take~i the place of the Mer-
cedita in convoying the California steamers.
	Alabama, Commander Edward T. Nichols, at this port, in a bad con-
dition from sickitess; a medical survey has been ordered.
	Rhode Island, Commander S. D. Trenchard, sails to-day on a cruise
oft the Bahama Islands arid Providence Channel.
	Santiago de Cuba, Captain Theo. P. Grecue, at Cape ilaitien.
	Octorara, Commander N. Collins, repairing and coaling at Key West.
	Tioga, Commander Clary, cruising in the North West Providence
Channel and about the Bahama Banks, has been ordered to this port
when in want of supplies.
	National Guard, Acting Master Commanding Hays, storeship, at
Cape ilaitmen.
	Gemsbok, Acting Master Commanding Oliver Thacher, storeship, at
St. Thomas.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	J.	L. LARDNER,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Report of ~{cting Rear-A dmiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, regarding the condition of the U. S. S. Alabama.

FLAGSHIP TICONDEROGA,
Cape Ilaitien, July 27, 18G3.
	SIR:	I have the honor to forward with this a report of a medical
survey upon the condition of the steamer Alabama too-
letter of Commander Nichols, of that ship. ~ether with a
	It is with the greatest regret that I feel compelled to part with a
ship at this time, but in view of the whole case it is believed that it
would save life and valuable time to place the vessel as quickly as pos-
sible in a Northern port, as recommended by the senior medical officers
of the squadron. She has been ordered, therefore, to Boston.
	It will be seen by the Department that the report of survey reflects
severely on the commanding officer of the Alabama. This can be bet-
ter determined after a thorough breaking out of the ship.
ii	am, very respectfully, your ob~diemmt servant,
	J.	L. LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge,
relative to the detention and examination of supposed blockade runner
Juno.
U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Praya (Terceira), July 27, 1863.

	SIR: I have the honor to inform the IDepartment ,h aving coaled
at Fayal, amid being ready to sail on the 17th instant, by way of Angra

Page 413

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	413

for the i~ortheastern side of the island of Terceira, there arrived in the
morning a steamer from Bristol, called the Juno. This steamer, from
her fine lines, had evidently been selected for speed~ She was short of
coal and had come in for a supply, but as none was to be obtained
except from our consul, who refased to supply her, she sailed suddenly,
with the quarantine flag still flying, and shaped her course through the
islands to the eastward. We immediate]: followed her iii the Kear-
sarge, and I was in hopes of overhauling her after she had left the
island of St. George; but our journal bearings becoming heated aud
the boilers foaming, onr speed was so retarded that the chase went
into Angra (Terceira) some three quarters of an hour ahead of us.
	On the following day after our arrival the captain of the Juno came
on board and enquired of me why I had fired at him. I replied I
wanted him to heave to. He then requested to know if I wanted to
examine him, to which I responded in the affirmative. To this response
he replied that he wished I would come on board and examine his
papers and cargo while he was in port. A propositiou so singular
could but have the effect of awakening suspicion that a part of his
cargo had been discharged, which would be returned after examina-
tion. Having coaled, he sailed some three days afterwards, when we
immediately followed him again. Instead of pursuing his course to the
westward for Bermuda, his reported place of destination, he steamed
to the eastward, close along the land, taking a course around the island,
endeavoring to elude as by dodging, at one time going through a pas-
sage between Cabras Island, of only some 60 feet in width at the
entrance, and gaining on us half a mile or more. Finding all his
dodges of mit avail, and that the Kearsarge would outsteam him, he
hailed us and asked if I wanted to examine him now, to which I replied
no; that when he was over 3 miles from land I would send on board.
After one or two more shifts he steamed to the northward. As soou
as he got beyomid neutral jurisdiction, which cross bearings gave us, I
sent on board and ordered an examination. The sea was heavy, and it
being desirable to get in smoother water for this object, we steamed
toward Fayal and in a more direct course for Bermuda, his port of
destination, at the same time making such examination as was practi.
cable. On the following morning, while off Fayal and engaged in this
work, the British consul pulled to sea and caine on board to make
enquiries, when all facilities were offered to him for this purpose. At
5 oclock in the afternoon, about twenty-eight hours after we had taken
him, I directed his release, it being found impossible to search him
thoroughly without throwing overboard his coals. The examination,
as far as held, showed him to be laden in part with cotton sheetings,
cotton cards for carding cotton, quantities of drugs, and sundries.
After his release I learned from the searching officer that a passenger~
who had the whole saloon tor his use, had informed him that on the
capture he had burned all his letters.
	I have been thus particular in the narrative of this ease, as I learn
that the British consul has made a protest~ with statement of the affair,
to his Government.
	The grounds under which the vessel was overhauled were, first, the
indisputable right for such examination in time of war; secondly, his
detention an(I examination being fully justified by his changing his
course to eastward amid endeavoring to elude search by going round
the island of Terceira in hopes of passing sufficiently ahead while in
neutral waters to avoid fire and escaping in this way; thirdly, the want
of letter of instructions to the captain showing alteruate destiuatiou
from Bermuda

Page 414

414	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	In closing this letter I would beg leave to add that, the Department
having given instructions to capture all vessels laden with munitions
of war or contraband, it may be considered that an error in judg-
ment has been made in not sending this vessel to the United States;
but as the word contraband has taken so general a scope in diplomatic
correspondence, a question necessarily arises of what is contraband on
this side of the Atlantic, and the definition might be quite distinct
from what may be classed contraband on the other side. In conclusion,
I will state that if this vessel had been taken out of Bermuda on her
alternate voyage I should without hesitation have sent her to the
United States for adjudication.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNO. A. WINSLOW,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. 0.


Report of the commandant navy yard, Boston, of the arrival of the
U. S. S. Shenandoah.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE, U. S. NAVY YARD,
Boston, July ~27, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you that the U. S. steam sloop Shen-
andoah arrived at this yard from a cruise this day at half past 1
oclock p. m.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Wavy, Washington, D. C.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 27, 1863.
	Let the Shenandoah make a cruise to the south ward and eastward,
and when her coal is exhausted proceed to Philadelphia.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary.
Commodore MONTGOMERY,
Commandant Navy Yard, Boston, Mass.


Report of Commander Garter, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Michi-
gan, relative to cruise in Lake Erie.

U. S. S. MICHIGAN,
Cleveland, Ohio, July 28, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report the ship at this place, having made a
cruise to the several cities on Lake Erie, in compliance with your order
of May 9, 1861.*
	The visit of the ship to Detroit, Mich., at this time was opportune.
I found the people suffering under serious apprehensions of a riot in

	* Order of May 9, 1861, requested him to visit the principal ports of the United
State8 on the Lakes for the purpose of enlisting men into the naval service

Page 415

415
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
consequence of excitement in reference to the draft, probably brought
about by unscrupulous sensational newspapers predicting such riots.
The presence of the ship perhaps did something to~vard overawing the
refractory, and certainly did much to allay the apprehensions of an
excited, doubting people. All fears in reference to the riot had sub-
sided before I left. I would respectfully suggest that I be permitted to
enlist ten boys, over and above the complement of this ship, these boys
to be between the ages of 13 and 16, to be educated in the duties of
the naval profession, and selected from those whose fathers and brothers
have been and are serving the Government. I have met with tolerable
success in procuring recruits for the Mississippi flotilla in the last two
or three months.
I have the honor to be, your very obedient servant,
J. C. CARTER,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


[Telegram.]

BROOKLYN, July 29, 1863.
(Received at Washington 10:15 p. in.)
	I have this moment received the following telegram:
Privateer Florida was at Bermuda July 22, coaling and calking, to remain two or
three days.		EXCHANGE NEWSROOM, NEW YORK.
		Fl. PAULDINO-,
		lCornmandant.]
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting AJiaster Collins, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. schooner George ]Vliangham, to cruise for the protec-
tion of American fisheries in the Gu~f of St. Lawrence.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 30, 1863.
	SIR: The George Mangham, under your command, having been fitted
out for the purpose of cruising in the Qulf of St. Lawrence and in that
immediate vicinity for the protection of our fisheries, you will proceed
with her with all practicable dispatch to that locality and remain there
until the close of the fishing season, and then return to Boston, where
further orders will be received.
	You will communicate with the Department when opportunities
occur and keep it advised of affairs within the limits of your cruising
ground. Should rebel privateers make their appearance among the
fishing vessels, the Department relies upon your energy and ability to
protect them and capture the depredators upon our commerce and
fishing interests.
	You will confine yourself to the Gulf of St. Lawrence and its vicin-
ity, where our fishermen are most extensively engaged. Advise the
Department where letters will reach you.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Master JOHN COLLINS, Jr., U. S. Navy,
Comdg. U. S. schooner George Mangham, Washington, D. C

Page 416

416	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS-UNION.
Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Bell, U. &#38; Navy, commanding Pacific
Squadron, of cruise of the flagship Lancaster.
U.	S. FLAGSH~IP LANCASTER,
Acapulco, July 30, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you that we arrive(1 here yesterday,
after a cruise to the northward and westward as far as Magdalena Bay,
in Lower California. The night after leaving Acapulco we fell iu and
communicated with IT. S. S. Narragansett, Commander Stanly, from a
cruise up the Gulf of California. On the 9th July spoke and boarded
Pacific Mail Companys steamer Golden Age, Captain Lappidge, bound to
Panama. The following day met H. B. M. ~hip Mutine, CapTtain Gra-
ham, from San Bias. The ]Iifutine saluted my flag as soon as discov-
ered. We supplied her with papers, etc. Ga the 13th July we anchored
for a few hours at Cape San Lucas. Here we received information
that heavy gales had recently occurred on the opposite side of the
Gulf and several vessels were driven on shore. On the 14th July we
stood into Magdalena Bay, ran about 8 miles up the bay, and anchored.
	This bay is very spacious and one of the finest in the world, but
scarcely a vestige of vegetation was to be seen, except a few mangrove
bushes in a lagoon a few miles above the anchorage.
	Fish of every description, clams, etc., are abundant and the climate
is most delightful. We remained there three days,and our sick list
was reduced from 32 (the number we had on leaving Acapulco) to 15.
Left Magdalena Bay July 117 and ran out for the usual track of the
mail steamers. At 2p. m. spoke and boarded U. S. storeship Farrallones,
Acting Master C. C. Wells commanding, which I had ordered to Aca-
pulco. At 3: 3~p. m. spoke and boarded Pacific mail steamer St. Louis,
Captain Hudson, from San Francisco bound to Panama. We were
supplied with papers, which gave the glorious intelligence of the fall
of Vmcksburg and the check of Lees army by General Meade, which
caused great rejoicing throughout the ship.
	We continued in company with the Earrallones until the 24th July,
when we separated in a southeast gale.
	With the exception of rime days, we have been under sail, keeping
fires banked, in order to preserve our coal for an emergency.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully,
	CHAS. H. BELL,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding Pacific Squadron-
Hon. GIDEON WELLES, Secretary of the Navy.
[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, July 31, 1863.

	Send the Shenandoah directly to Philadelphia.
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commodore JNO. B. MONTGOMERY,	Secretary of the Navy.
Commandant Navy Yard, Boston.


Report of Commander Parrott, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Au,qusta,
of cruise from Cape Cod, Mass., to New York.
U.	S. S. AUGUSTA,
Navy Yard, New York, July 31, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival here yesterday evening
of the U. S. S. Augusta, under my command

Page 417

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	417

	Since my communication of the 24th instant we have cruised from
off Cape Cod to off New York. Oii the 29th we passed the mast of a
burned schooner. Fish about it and a rope, whiefr appeared to have
been attached for towiiig, were the only evidences of the length of time
it had been in the water.
	We have spoken aid boarded a large number of vessels during our
cruise, and it appears to me improbable that privateers have been on
this part of our coast for at least more than a fnrtnight.
	On the 25th the British brig Caledonia, of St. John, New Brunswick,
reported she had left at Guadelonpe, West Indies, on the 12th, the
U. S. S. Ticonderoga, with Admiral Lardner on board. The Oneida
had left two days before, and the report there was that the privateer
Alabama was at Belize about the middle of June.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
E.	G. PARROTT,

Commander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to the secretary of the New York
Chamber of Commerce, regarding measures of protection to commerce.

NAvY DEPARTMENT, August 1, 1863.

	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the memorial *
of the Chamb~r of Commerce of the State of New York, transmitted
to me with your letter of the 23d nitimo, and to state in reply that
measnres have been taken to protect our commerce, and steamers
have already been distributed over the tracks indicated in the memorial.
Very respectfully.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
JNO. AUSTIN STEVENS, Jr., Esq.,
Secretary, etc., New York.


Report of Commander Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Van.
derbi it, of cruise for the protection of commerce in the vicinity of Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil.

U. S. S. VANDERBILT,
Rio do Janeiro, August 2, 1863.
	SIR: I last had this honor on the 23d of July, a copy of which please
find enclosed; the original was sent via the French mail packet.
	We completed our repairs on the boilers yesterday, and last night
the English mail steamer arrived, but brought no information of either
of the piratical vessels whatever. I now incline to the belief that they
have all left this coast.
	The Mohican sailed from here day before yesterday. She will cruise
a few days between here and Bahia, and then coal at the latter port.
	I shall be off in an hour, a shall go ~i1 the neighborhood of Triiii-
dad Island again, and, keeping as much as l)ossible in the track of our
vessels, go up to the northward and run itt Bahia, in, say, a fortnight,

See p. 402.
	N W RYOL II	2

Page 418

418	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

for information, as well as to fill up with coal. Of course, if I should
obtain any reliable information to guide me, my course might be in a
totally opposite direction.
	Should I not hear anything further of the pirates, either during my
cruise or at Bahia, I shall then consider it certaiu they have left this
coast, and shall then decide whether to go to the northward by the way
of Cape Verde, etc., or through the West India Islands.
	I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant.
	C. H. BALDWIN,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander, 11. S. Navy.
Secretary of the fATavy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commander Nichols, U. S. Navy, commanding U. &#38; S. Ala.
bama, of the arrival of that vessel at New York from Cape Haitien,
West Indies.
U.	S. S. ALAEAMA,
New York Bay, August 2, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report my arrival at this place from Cape
Haitien, July 27. I transmit herewith a copy of my orders from
Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner. Last evening, owing to a repre-
sentation made by the medical officer of the critical condition of the
chief eughicer and others, I steered for this port. Since leaving Cape
Haitien, the fever which prevailed on board assumed a more fatal type,
and up to this time we have buried 7 men and 2 officers, 6 since leav-
ing Cape Haitien; 2 were buried at 5 this morning. Our chief engi-
neer and second assistant are very low, 2 third assistants have died, and
the remaining third assistant is barely convalescent. Two of the fire-
men have run the engine for the last three days. But 4 officers, have
escaped the fever, and all hands are macli debilitated. Since the 19th
of July we have had 30 cases, 9 of which terminated fatally, and we
have still 20 remaining, though many of them are recovering; 2 of these
remaining cases, the chief engineer and 1 man, will, I fear, terminate
fatally.
	All on board have behaved well under the trying circumstances, and
I shall take occasion to bring them to the notice of the Department in
a detailed report. I trust the Department will excuse this brief report
at this time, for I have neither the energy nor ability to write more
fully.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
En. T. NICHOLS,
Commander.
Hon. GiDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.

[Enclosure.]

FLM~SHIP TICONDEROGA,
Cape Haitien, July 27, 1863.
	Sru: You will proceed with the Alabama, under your command, to
Boston, and upon your arrival report in writing to the honorable Sec.
retary of the Navy and in person to the commandant of the navy yard

Page 419

OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERS~LTNION.	419

	The report of the survey ou the condition of the Alabama, with my
letter to the Department and other papers, are sent in the ships letter
bag with this.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J. L. LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West india Squadron.
Commander EDWARD T. NICHOLS,

U.	S. S. Alabama.



Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commodore Ringgold, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. ship Sabine, to cruise for the protection of commerce
on the New England coast.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, August 3, 1863.

	SIR: Proceed with the U. S. frigate Sabine on a cruise along the New
England coast, recruiting at such points as may be advisable. Keep
the Department advised of your movements and successes, and at all
times be vigilant to give protection and assistance to our commerce
and fisheries in your vicinity when in danger.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Commodore CADWALADER RINGGOLD,

Commanding U. S. Frigate Sabine, New York.



Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Ransom U
	commanding U. S. S. ]Jfercedita.	Navy,

NAVY DEPARTMENT, August 3, 1863.

	SIR: Proceed with the U. S. S. ]Jlercedita immediately to Phila-
delphia.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the iVavy.
	Commander GEO. M. RANSOM,
Commanding U. S. S. ]liiiercedita, Port Royal, S. C.



[Telegram.]

NEW YORK, August 3, 1863.
(Received at Washington 5:10 p. in.)
	We learn the rebel steamer Florida has sailed froui Bermuda. We
trust that vessels have been ordered to search for her between this
port and Newfoundland. Doubtless that will be her destructive cruise.
J.	D. JONES,
President Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company.
Hon. G. WELLES

Page 420

420	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUJSERSUNION.

Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander A (my, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Connecticut, to cruise for the interception of
blockade runners.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, Au gust 4, 1863.

	SIR: Proceed on the Connecticut with all possible dispatch to cruise
offshore in the tracks of vessels bound to Wilmington from Bermuda
and Nassau.
	I transmit herewith some printed extracts containing information
relative to vessels that are engaged in running the blockade. The
most noted that ply between Bermuda and Wilmington are the Robert
B. Lee and the Cornubia, the latter now called the Jeff Davis.
	The Department desires to call your special attention to the Sumter,
now called Gibraltar, which sailed from Liverpool on the 3d of July
last. She has on board, it is said, a number of gnus in cases, also two
very large Blakeley guns and munitions of war.
	When out of coal proceed to Hampton Roads and replenish. Should
you capture any steamers, send them to Boston for adjudication.
Yery respectfully, etc..
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Commander JOHN J. ALMY,
Commander of U. S. S. Connecticut, New York.


[Telegram.]

SAN FRANCISCO, August 4, 1863.
(Received at Washington 11:50 p. in.)
	Authority asked to erect earthworks for defense. A hostile vessel
could inflict great injury on property if she escaped the forts, without
proper works of defense here. A war steamer is iieeded at San
Francisco.
THOS. 0. SELFRIDGE,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, August 5, 1863.

	Authority is given to erect earthworks for defense of the navy yard.
The Departments telegram of April 21 gives you all the authority
necessary to meet an emergency requiring an armed steamer beyond
those belonging to the Navy now on coast.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Captain T. 0. SELFRIDGE,
Commandant Navy Yard, San Francisco, Cal.


Report of Acting Rear.Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of the condition and location of the vessels of that
squadron.
FLA&#38; SHIP TICONDEROGA,
Cape Haitien, August 6, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honoi~ to report the position of the West India Squad-
ron at this time

Page 421

OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERStJNION.	421

	Ticonderoga, Commander William IRouckendorif, flagship, at Cape
Haitien.
	Jumiata, Commander J, M. B. Glitz, coaling at Capt Haitien, in a bad
condition as to engines and masts. Official reports of surveys for-
warded with this.
	Rhode island, Commander S. D. Trenchard, crnising off the Bahama
Islands and Providence Channel.
	Santiago de Cuba, Captain Theo. P. Greene, sails to-day to convoy the
California [mail steamers]; boilers reported to be in bad condition.
	Octorara, Commander Napoleon Collins, repairing and coaling at
Key West; has been ordered to Cape ilaitien.
	Tioga, Commander Albert G. Clary, cruising in the North West Prov-
idence Channel and about Bahama Banks: has been ordered, when in
want, to fill np with supplies at Key West and report at Cape Haitien.
	National ~uctrd, Acting Master Commanding William Lee Hays,
storeship, at Cape Haitien.
	Uemsbo A, Acting Master Oliver Thacher, storeship, at St. Thomas.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	L. LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.

Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

	[P. S.]J would suggest to the 1)epartment that the outward-bound
California steamers would be an expeditious way of sending me any
orders, as they are met by the convoy three times a month at the Island
Mariguana.
J.	L. L.



Report of Captain Stellwagen, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Con-
stellation, relative to steamer Southerner, supposed to be a Confederate
privateer.

U.	S. Snip CONSTELLATION,
Barcelona, August 10, 1863.
	SIR: I was detained several days at Spezia by conflicting acconnts
about the steamer Southerner, intended, it is supposed, to operate as
a privateer in the Mediterranean Sea. The first rumors were to the
eft~ct she had already entered it, but the latest, a letter from Mr.
Sprague; says only that she is confidently expected. I have visited
Marseilles and this place, wishing to keep free communication with all
of our consulates, and be in readiness to start from a central point. I
have just heard an American captain has been killed at Yalencia, and
shall stop there on the way to Gibraltar. I shall use all endeavors to
prevent any marauding in our commerce. The Italian, French, and
Spanish authorities have all been very courteous.
Very res~)ectfully, your obedient servant
H.	S. STELLWAGEN,
Captain.
Hon. G. WELLES,
Secretary iz~f the Navy, Washington

Page 422

422	OPERATIONS OP TIlE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from Acting Rear-Admiral Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific
Squadron, regarding reqyests for the presence of a United States man-
of-war in Pacific ports.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Acapulco, August 10, 1863.
	SIR: I have received your letter of the 15th July, enclosing the copy
of a dispatch received by the Secretary of State from R. L. Robertson,
esq., U. S. consul at Mazatlan, containing suggestions relative to the
importance of a vessel of war visiting that port oftener, etc.
	I am receiving letters from envoys, consuls, and ministers resident
from one end of the coast to the other, including the Sandwich Islands,
also from San Francisco, each and all urging the necessity of the pres-
ence of a man-ofwar, every one supposing they are neglected, and each
one insisting that their position is of more importance than any other
within the limits of my command. Mr. Robertson has shown, from his
letter, that his place was considerably favored, when we take into con-
sideration the vessels I have and the extent of my commandfrom
Puget Sound to the Straits of Magellan.
	The shortness of the stay of our men-of-war at Mazatlan at certain
seasons is owing to the dangerous anchorage. It is aii open roadstead,
and exposed to a heavy swell which drives ships on shore from their
anchorage. That part of Mr. Robertsons letter relating to the conduct
of Commander Fabius Stanly and the officers of the U. S. S. Narra-
gansett I have referred to him for explanation, which will be sent to the
Department as soon as received.
I h4ve the honor to be, very respectfully,
CHAS. H. BELL,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Parker, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, to cruise in the track of homeward-
bound vessels from Europe.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, August 10, 1863.

	SIR: Proceed with the U. S. steam sloop Tuscarora on a three weeks
cruise to the eastward in the track of the homeward-bound vessels
from Europe. You will goas far to the eastward as possible within
the period named, and return at the end of that time to Boston, unless
you should get on the track of some one of the rebel vessels and it
should be advisable to go in pursuit, in which case you will not con-
sider yourself restricted to the period mentioned.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	CommaniXer Wm~r. A. PARKER,
Commanding U. S. S. Tuscarora, Boston

Page 423

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	423

Report of Commander Almy, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Connecti~
cut, of departure for sea in obedience to orders.
.4

U. S. S. CONNECTICUT,
Off New York, August 10, 1863.
	SIR:	I hereby report that I took my departure from the navy yard,
Brooklyn, to-day for sea, in compliance with orders from the Navy
Department to cruise offshore ou the tracks of vessels bound to Wil-
miugtou from Bermuda and Nassau.
	I herewith transmit a complete muster roll of the officers and crew
of this vessel iu conformity to the general order, which I send back by
the pilot.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOHN J. ALMY,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Letter from the U. S. consul at Liverpool, England, to the Secretary of
the Navy, regarding the reported movements of the C. S. S. Florida.

	U.	S. CONSULATE, LIVERPOOL,
Tower Building, South Water St., August 11, 1863.

	SIR:	Capt~.in A. H. Lucas, of the sh ip Red Gauntlet, captured by the
Florida in latitude 80 30 N., longitude 340 30 W., has just beeu to see
me. While on board he learned from Captain 1\laffitt and the officers
that the Florida would cruise off of Nantucket Shoals, thence toward
Cape Sable thence toward the Banks of Newfoundland, thence toward
the English Channel and coast of Spain in the direction of the Strait
of Gibraltar, and afterwards to their old cruising ground betwen 230
N. and 100 5. I give you this for what it is worth, but it would seem
as if he was following out this programme, for on the 7th July he cap-
tured the ship Sunrise near Nantucket Shoals. I have felt it my duty
to write direct, and give you the earliest information about the move-
ments of this vessel.
I am, sir, your obedient servant~
THOMAS II. DUDLEY.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific
Squadron, to Commander Stanly, commanding U. S. S. Narragansett,
to cruise for the protection of Pacific mail steamers.

U.	S. FLAGsHIP LANCASTER,
Acapulco, August 12, 1863.
	SIR:	As soon as you are in all respects ready you will proceed with
the U. S. S. Narragansett, under your command, to sea.
	You will cruise along the coast between this and Las Tres Marias
Islands, in the track usually taken by the Pacific mail steamers in their
trips between San Francisco and this place.


Page 424

424	OPERATIONS OP TEE OEhJI8ERStJNIOt
	You can extend your cruise as far as Mazatlan touching at San Bias,
but must endeavor always to be at Mausaniflo about the BOth of each
month, that being the timewheuour mail steamems touch at that place.
For general instructions I must refer you to my letter of September %
1882. 1 will add however, that in fature you must keep at least two-
thirds of your officers on board, and when lying atMasatlan San Bias,
Mansamilo, or other places where there are many friends of tie traitors
now in arms against our country, a sea wateh will be kept, with arms
at hand, to repel any attempt at surprise during the night.
	You will be pleased to communicate with the flag at least once a
month from this place.
Very respectftully, yours,


	Commander Fsnrcrs STan,
Oomssaading U. &#38; &#38; .Yarragaaeett, Acapulco.



Report of Clommaesder Bassos, U. S. Navy, eosnsaudAs, U. &#38; &#38; Her-
cedik., of arrival at Philadelphia Navy Yard.

U.	S. S. KnOEDITA,
Navy Yard, Philadelphia, Angst 15, 1868.
	Sn: I have the honor to report the arrival of this vessel at this
place, in obbdience to the Departments order of the 3d instant.
I am, sir, very respeotfiully, your obedient servant,
Guo. II. RaNsox,
Oommcad~
	Hon. GiDEoN Wnus
secretary of the r4 Washington, D.C.



Report of Commander Trenohard, U. &#38; Navy, commanding
Rhode Island, of the capture by that vessel of the Bngllih tosser
Crosstadt.
	At Sea, LaL 280 41 N.,	U.	ISLAND,
Long. 760 41 V., August 17, 1868.
	Sn: I have the honor to report the seizure, by the U.S. S. Rhode
Island, of the English screw steamer Cron.tsdt for violation of the
blockadeat Wilmington.
	She was overtaken yesterday, the 16th instant, at about 3:15 p. in.,
after a chase of nearly six, hours, in latitude 370 40 N longItude 780
44 W., Man of War Cay, Abaco (nearestpoint of land) bearing s.j vv.,
66 miles distant Her cargo consists of cotton, turpentine, and tobacce.
I have dispatehed her to Boston via Port Royal for atiudicatlon, with
a prize crew under the charge of Acting Master William Wifliams, who
has orders to report to the Department on his arrival at Boston.
	The prize crew is composed of men whose terms of service have
already expired or will expire during the present month. Acting
Mastets Mate William Rogers, of this ve~se1, an invalid, has been sent
North by the same opportunity.




Page 425

OflflAIIOfl OP ThE (StJISflflStfNION.
425
The (Yroaetadt left Wilmington on the night of the 18th instant It
was learned aftpr the seizure of the (Jrogsetgjt that her chief and first
assistant engineer and three men left that vessel hi a boat during the
midst of the chase. Her commander, first mate, and three of her crew
goxorthinher,toberetallieda5witflessesifltheCase.
I am, very respeotfizlly, your obedient servant,
STurumi D. TnNOHARD,
(Josusssder.
Hon. GIDEoN WELLES
Secretary of the i4,, Waeh4ugtos, D.C.


Report of Cosusaader .Preble, [T. &#38; .Y.y, eou.mawsdksg U. &#38; aMp SD.
Louis, of the cruise of that vessel from Jul1 *9 to August &#38; 

U. S. SLooP OP WAR ST. LOUIS,
Afadeira, August 17,1868.
Sm: Agreeublytomyinsti?W3tlons to keep the Department informed
of my movements, I have to report that slice vii n from Algeciras
on the 22d of July 1 have visited Tangier, Cadis, Sal, Mogador, and
this island, from whence I intend sailing to-morrow for Grand Canny,
thencetoTeneriffe, Palma, Psyal, eta.
After convoying two American ships through the straits, I waited
at Tangier to hear tbrther from our consul st Cadis respecting the
Southerner. Learning his letter to me had been sent back toCadis
through the blundering of our vice-consul at Algeciras, and being in
need of wood, water, and other necessaries best procured there, I
decided to go to Cadis and ascertain personally the extent of his infor.
matlon. On arrival I fond the consuls tel phic message had come
from Turin via Madrid, but he had nothing ~her to impart; neither
had our minister at Madrid, with whom he communicated on the subject
by telegraph. Considering the information as too vague and unrehable
to influence my movements, and probably based on the news~jer
reports of the Southerner. being engaged.to ply as a packet in the ed-
iterranean during the war, I decided, after completing my supplies, to
pursue my cruise, sailing from Cadis on the 2d of August In two
days after I anchored at Sal, where I was received with the greatest
politeness by the governor, or bashaw, who met me at the beach on
landing, and escorted me and my officers to his palace, where he regaled
us, after the Moorish custom, with tea. He welcomed us as the first
United States vessel of war that had ever entered Sal, and while enter-
taining us sent on board ship a present of a bulbook and a quantity of
bread. He was very minute in his enquiries concerning our war, and
Iwaihappyin beingable to reportour reeentvlctories,stwhich he
expressed his gratification. Our vice-consul was absent, but the Euro-
pean consuls gave us a warm welcome and expressed their satisfaction
at our visit, which would be reported to the Emperor, they said, and
have a very beneficial effect upon the Moors. They apologized for not
hoisting their consular flags until I landed saying they did not know
but we were a rebel cruiser, in which caset~ey had agreed not to hoist
them. I sailed from Sal the morning following my arrival for Mop-
dor, where I arrived about noun of the same There not being
water sufficient for the ship in the innerharbor, I anchored in the outer
roads, and as it was too rough for coxumunication with the shore I
Immediately saluted th&#38; town, and my salute was promptly returned
by the shore batteries. The next morning the health boat managed to
reach the ship, and brought off a from our vice-consul, bu

Page 426

426	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISEESIJNION.

it was still too rough for our boats. As our anchorage was a very
uncomfortable and scarcely a safe one, arid the consul had nothing par-
ticular to detain us, I saluted his consular flag a~d got underway for
Madeira, where we arrived on the 8th, after two days passage. On
weighing anchor at Tangier we found the stock of our starboard bower
anchor broken, and the usual spare stocks not having been provided
in the ships outfit, I have of necessity procured another stock here.
In getting underway at Mogador our port chain parted, supposed from
the anchors catching under a rock, by which we lost the anchor and 7
fathoms of chain.
	Learning at Cadiz from her first lieutenant, who preceded her there,
it was planned for the ililiacedonian to arrive and leave this island pre-
vious to the Thth, I have delayed here longer than 1 wished awaiting
her arrival, expecting to procure from her, as I have, the correction of
my signal book and a supply of Coston night signals, cannon primers,
aiid other essentials. I hoped also to get an anchor, but find hers are
either too heavy or too light to supply our loss.
	When this ship returns to Lisbon her decks and topsi~es will require
recalking, the head of her inizzenmast, which is defective, must be
scraped, and she will require a general overhaul of the rigging for a
winter cruise.
	The islands not being considered safe anchorages for sailing vessels
in the the winter months, I respectfully [request] my cruising ground
may be extended to include Ferrol and Vigo Bay, on the coast of Spain,
both good harbors, seldom if ever visited by our vessels of war, and on
the route taken by blockade runners from En gland, to take coal at
Madeira. Ferrol is also one of the principal (lepartments of the
Spanish navy.
I am happy to report the officers and crew of the St. Louis all well.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEO. HENRy PREBLE,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretc(ry of the Nary, Washington.


Report of Commander Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. AS~. Van-
derbilt, of the cruise of that vessel and of the movements of the
C. S. S. Alabama.
U.	S. S. VANDERBILT,
St. Helena, August 17, 1863.
	SIR:	I had the honor last to address the Department from Rio de
Janeiro, under date of August 2, copy of which please find enclosed, and
sailed the same day.
	1 visited Trinidad Island, but saw nothing, and as the weather was
betterthat is, we had lighter trade winds than I had anticipatedI
decided to come over here, as, sl)ite of the miserable quality of the coal I
took in at Rio, I should probably, in the event of not hearing anything
of the rebels here, either be able to get some coal here or at worst I
could, by closely economizing, have sufficient to get me back to Bahia.
	As I before wrote the I)epartment, my boilers, and especially the
tubes, are quite covered with salt; they are so thiu we dare not attempt
to scale them, consequently our con suinption of coal is largely ilicrease(l.
This fact, in connection with the very poor quality of coal taken in at
Rio (it had been lying in the open air for three years), requires me to burn,
with two boilers only, say fully 10 tons per day additional

Page 427

OPE1~ATTON~ OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	427

	I arrived here toward the evening of the 15th instant (Saturday), and
heard from our consul that news had been received here a few days pre-
viously by the British ship Havelocic that they ha~ beeii boarded off the
Cape of Good Hope on the 26th July by the Alabama, and had also
seen, the day before, the Georgia standing in for the cape.
	Yesterday a Danish schooner arrived fioin the cape, reporting that
on the 2d of this month the Alabama had been lying off Simons Bay
for two or three days; that her captain had been on shore and had
applied to the governor for permission to come in and go on the dock
there to clean his bottom; that it was reported the governor would only
consent to his coming in for twenty-four hours.
	Immediately I arrived here I called oii the governor, Rear-Admiral
Sir Charles Elliot, who had but lately arrived here. He seemed quite
friendly in his manner and in his conversation about our political affairs.
As I have not had occasion to ask any favors, I can not say with what
sincerity. As yesterday was Sunday it did not come nuder the twenty-
four hour rule, though, for a wonder, in an English island, I have not
been served with a copy of the Queens proclamation of neutrality.
	The day before I arrived there came in a small cargo (say 400 tons)
coal; there was none here previously. The owners offered it for sale to
me at $31.50 per ton.
	I thought well over the matter of asking permission of the authorities
to take in coal here, but concluded I had best not to (10 50, for iii that case
by the proclamation 1 should be (lebarred from taking any more coal in
at an English port for three mouths, and this whole quantity of 400 tons
would not~serve for any greatly increased distance.
	I have now on board, say, about 600 touus, besides over 100 tons in
bags; this latter is necessary for the protection of my engines and
steam chests and steam chimneys, which in this vessel come up above the
spar deck.
	I shall sail at noon to-day and try to get to the Cape of Good Hope,
and, if I have good weather, I shall have no difficulty; but if the con-
trary, I shall have to get back here or to Loan go as best I can. At
the cape I do not at all doubt I shall be able to fill lip with coal. From
that point, of course, my future direction must be governed by circuin-
stances.
	I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. H. BALDWIN,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of the commandant navy yard, Boston, of the arrival at that port
of the U. S. barii~ Ethan A lien.

CGMMANDANT8 OFFIcE, U. S. NAVY YARD,
Boston, August 18, 18G3.
	Sw:	The U. S. hark Ethan Alien arrived at this port this day at ii
oclock a. in., having been cruising since the 11th July without any event
of importance having occurred.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 428

o?flATIofl OP flfl OktIsUhslflUOIt.

latter from the captain of the bark Urania, in harbor of Cape Ton,
Africa, to Hears. Cog$U merchants, i. Yew YorZ~contalninu 
account of an interview ,.id the cousmander of the V Alabama

Bar Unm,
Cape Tows, Table Bay, August 19,1868.
GurrLunN:	I have mentioned In letter 9the factthatlam
blockaded In this port and consider myself (since the 8th of August)
as acting for the benefit of underwriters to war risk. My departure at
this time would be almost certain capture, to be bonded or destroyed.
The morning following the Alabamas arrival I had my boat manned
and proceeded to pay Semmes a visit. I announced myself in the
privateers gangway as master of the Federal bark (then the only
Northern vessel in port) and desired an interview on business with
Oaptain Semmes. The officer in charge of the deck received me with
smiling politeness, ad desired that I should walk afr another officer
brought a message from Seinmes that he would be at liberty to receive
me presently, and ordered that I might be shown the vessel In. the
meantime. Mr. Bulloch, the master, a young, gentlemanly, and pro-
g man, showed me polite attention, and I saw the great ma.
mat necessary to capture unarmed traders. After a delay of about
twenty minutes I was invited don into the cabin, was introduced to
Semmes as master of the New York bark, and met a most polite recep-
Uon;wasinvitedatcncetoaseatbyhlssideongje~~ lofforeda
slight apologyfor engaging hisvaluable time, and requested information
as to the following:
I stated that my vessel was chartered by an Englishman who had
never taken any oath of foreign allegiance, ete., and owner of the
cargo, ete.; that to the best of my knowledge all money transactions
for the purchase of said cargo were and had been through English
credits, ete., and, under these circumstances, would the Urania, when
caught, be destroyed or bonded? The reply was, that in all cases a
proper organised admiralty court was held on board to adjudicate upon
pnses, and that if my documents satisfied the court that matters were
bo as I had stated, that In that case the vessel would only be
bonded.
During the latter part of this interview the master, Captain White,
and supercargo, Mr. ulding, of Sea Bride, werepresent, awaiting an
order to obtain thefr clothing, etc., from their unfortunate vessel, then
standing off and on near the port entrance. When on point of retiring
I smilingly asked Semmes if there was truth in ~ report current on
shore that for hoisting the old flag so near to his vessel he had pub-
licly expressed anger and had threatened to haug the saucy Yankee
captain when he caught him, Semmes almost laughed1 and assured
me, while bowing me out) that he looked upon the affair from quite a
different point of view- not the slightest truth iii the report, and
seemed rather to think the betterof me for doing what Ihad done, as
the only Federal vessel in port. You have no right to any other flag,
sir were his last words to me.
+he excitement on shore and Southern sympathy was at first so great
that, fearing personal injury, I armed myself; but other than a few
wordy insults fromindividnals to whom my person was known, but who
themselves were strangers to me, I was not molested.
On board the Alabama, while awaiting for the interview, I met Mr.
Welton, who, with hundreds of other spectators and visitors, was
walking about to see the celebrated vessel. As I was apparently i

Page 429

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	429

charge of an officer, Mr. Welton seemed to decline any acknowledgment
of acquaiii tance. Mr. Welton afterwards, however, introduced him self
to Semiues and, I understand, conversed about ~is position.
	Your nephew, George C. Torrey, during the stay of the privateer,
was somewhat excited, lie soon, however, found courage alone to
visit the vessel and see for himself. The boys health is goo(1. lie
lauAy passed a few days on a visit to Captain Murrison, who kindly
permitted him to ride about on his sons poiiy and otherwise enjoy
himself. His speech has not improved, but lie has grown taller.
	Under present circumstances it is impossible for me to say when the
Urania may be expected to arrive in New York. Calculating sixty
days from the 8th, the probable length of ordinary passage, would be
about the time that we should have terminated our voyage; and I
shonl(l think that any losses after that date that the shippers may
suffer from a fall hi the market, etc., are insured against. The diffi-
culty of my position and my desire to act for the best will, I hope, be
entertained.
I am, gentlemen, your obedient, humble servant,
EDWARD COOPER.
	Messrs. C. J. &#38; F. W. CoGe-ILL,
Merchants, New York.



Report of Commander Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Van-
derbilt, ~J. the retnrn of that vessel to St. Helena Island for coal, trans-
mitting correspondence in regard to the sarn~.

U.	S. S. VANDERBILT,
St. Helena, Angnst 20, 1863.
	SIR: I had this honor on the 17th instant, dated from this place, and
which commuication goes on by the same mail as this.
	I started for the cape the same day, but when out twelve hours I con-
cluded, from the very fresh trades that were blowing, that it would be
too much risk to continue on, for even though I might possibly reach,
I could barely do so, and in that case, though I might hear of the priva-
teers in the neighborhood, I should be powerless to follow them.
	I arrived here the 18th and called on the governor for permission to
take in coal, which lie at once granted, but requested a written appli-
cation, copies of which, with his Excellencys answer, I enclose.
	The imext morning, however, [he] wrote me a more (lualified l)eiIIIisslorl.
granting me only till 5 p. in. to-day to take in coal (copy enclosed). I
made the best of it and with all hands coaling night and day shall get
in 40() tons, which leaves 100 tomis still here, and which might be sup-
plied to our enemies.
	Now that 1 have taken coal iii at an English port, I fear I shall have
great (lifticulty in getting permission to take what I shall re(luire, or
indeed any, at the Cape of Good hope. However, as it seems to me of
very great importance to get this ship in that neighborhood with the
least possible delay, I must take the chances of the future.
	In the event of nonsuccess in finding the rebel vessels in that neigh-
borhood I shall not be able to follow them; the want of coal alone would
be an insurmountable obstacle, and I must get somewhere to overhaul
and scale my boilers. 

Page 430

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	The Department may rest assured I shall exert myself to the utmost
in my endeavor to come up with these marauders.
	I have the houor to be, very respectfully, your okedient servant,
C. H. BALDWIN,

Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosures.]


U.	S. S. V~ANDERBILT,
St. Helena, August 18, 1863.
	SIR: For the information of your Excellency, I beg to state the occa-
sion of the return of this ship to this port.
	A careftul examination of our coal bunkers proves that we have not
so much coal on board as we had believed, and not enough, in the opin-
ion of the chief engineer, to enable us to reach a port where we might
obtain a sufficient supply.
	Under these circumstances, I have the honor to ask permission of
your Excellency to remain in this port sufficiently long to enable me to
take oii board a moderate amount of coal.
	I have the honor to be, sir, with the highest consideratioii, your obedi-
ent servant,
C. H. BALDW1N,
Commander, U. S. Navy.

	His Excellency Sir CHARLES ELLIOT,
Governor of St. Helena, etc.


ST. HELENA, August 18, 18631:40 p. m.
	SIR: I have had the honor to receive your letter of this date, acquaint-
ing me, in explanation of the return of the United States ship under
your command off this anchorage, that on a careful examination of
your remains of coal you find you have not so much on board as you
had believed, and not so much as, in the opinion of the chief engineer,
would enable you to reach a port where you can obtain a supply. In
that situation of circumstances I find myself at liberty to accede to
your request to remain iii this port sufficiently long to enable you to
take on board a moderate amount of coal.
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant,
CHARLES ELLIOT.

Commander CHARLES [H.j BALDWIN,

U.	S. S. Vanderbilt.


ST. HELENA, August 19, 18639 a. m.
	SIR: Requesting reference to your letter to me dated yesterday and
to my reply to that communication dated 4: 49 p. m. of the same day, I
have now the honor to specify that you have my permission, if you
should see fit to avail yourself of it, to take in to the extent of 500 tons
of coal at this port, 1)IoVdC(l you can take in such an amount before 5
p. m. to-morrow, the 20th instant

Page 431

431
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
	ilopiug this arrangement may meet the request preferred in your
letter to me of yesterday, it remains my duty to require that you will
put to sea from this island in the United States ~hip under your com-
mand before sunset to-morrow, the 20th instant.
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant,
CHARLES ELLIOT.

	Commander BALDWIN,
U.	S. &#38; Vanderbilt.


U.	S. S. VANDERBILT,
St. Helena, August 19, 186310:30 a. m.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your Excellencys
communication, dated this day, 9 a. m.
	I shall sail from here before sunset to-morrow, although I doubt if by
that time I shall be enabled to avail myself of the kind permission your
Excellency has been pleased to grant me to take up to 500 tons of coal,
or even near that amount.
I have the honor to be, sir, your Excellencys obedient servant,
C. II. BALDWIN,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
	His Excellency Sir CHARLES ELLIOT,
Governor of St. Helena, etc.



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific
Squadron, regarding movements of the vessels of his command.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Acapulco4 August 21, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you that on my arrival here I found
the U. S. steamers Narragansett and Saginaw, which I had ordered to
join me at this place.
	In a few days after the storeship Farrallones arrived. After obtain-
Pig supplies of coal and provisions, the Narragansett was sent on a cruise
to the northward and westward, and the Saginaw down the coast of
Panama. They sailed August 15. Copies of the instructions to each
of their commanders are herewith enclosed. The mail steamer, expected
with our mails, I fear h as passed, in consequence of a gale of wind
abouit the time she was due off this port. 1 shall probably leave here
in a day or two for a cruise to the north, endeavoring to keep in the
track of the Pacific mail steamers, and, should miothii g unforeseen
occur, will continue on to San Francisco, from which place I will com-
municate immediately with the DeparPneiit.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully,
CHAS. H. BELL,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding Pacific Squadron.

Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington

Page 432

432	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNIoN.

Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardncr, 1. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of the condition and location of the vessels of his
command.
FLAGSHIP TJCONIERO~A,
Cape Haitien, August 25, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the position of the different ships of
this squadron, arid their condition:
	Ticonderoga, flagship, Commander Ronckendorff, at Cape Haitien;
in good or(ler.
	Janiata, Cornmander J. M. B. Clitz, has just returned from a fort-
nights cruise to havana and Key West; her engine will require two
weeks work to enable it to ian a short distance at a slow rate in smooth
water.
	Rhode Island, Commander S. D. Trenchard, cruising off the Bahamas.
This is the only ship of the squadron, except the flagship, that is fit to
cruise at such a distance from a machine shop.
	Santiago de Cuba, Captain T. P. Greene, employed in convoying the
California steamers between the islands of Mariguana and Navassa three
times a month; boilers and engines much complained of.
	Octorara, Commander N. Collins, repairing at Key West.
	Tioga, Commander Albert G. Clary, repairing at Key West.
	The two last-named ships have taken much time at Key West for
repairs. They are but slow cruisers at best, not being able to come up
with anything that has steam.
	National Uuard, Acting Master Commanding William Lee Hays, at
Cape llaitiel, full of coal.
	Gemsbok, Acting Master Commanding Oliver Thacher, at St. Thomas,
full of coal.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, ~-. L. LARDNER,

Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

	August 26.The Tioqa arrived to-day, and will sail oii a cruise this
evening. In good condition, with the exceptiori of feed pump referred
to in enclosure marked A.


[Te1egr~m.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, August 26, 1863.
	The brig Perry is to cruise along the coast for the protection of the
fishermen. Report when she will be ready for sea.
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commodore MONTGOMERY.	[Secretary of the Navy.]
Boston Navy Yard.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Captain Alden, U. S. Navy, com-
manding U. S. S. Port Jac1~so~~,to cruise off Wilmington, N. C., for the
interception of arms shipped from England in the Gibraltar (Sumter).

NAVY DEPARTMENT, August 26, 1863.
	SIR: The Department has information of the lauding at Bermnda of
two very large W]mitwoj~th guns, weighing some 22 toims each, intende

Page 433

OPERATIONS OF TilE CRUISERSUNION.	433

for the rebels, and will doubtless be run into some Southern port should
an o1)portunity offer. These are supl)osed to be the same guns that
were shipped from England in the Sumter, alias G~raitar, which vessel
has been recently reported at Bermuda.
	It is very important that they should be intercepted, and with this
view you will proceed at once off Wilmington and cruise in the track
of vessels bound to that port from Bermuda. The Connecticut is also
engaged in the service. There is no necessity of your cruising imme-
diately off Wilmington or inshore, as Admiral Lee has his force employed
there.
	When your coal shall be exhausted, return to Hampton Itoads and
telegraph your arrival to the Department.
	You will exercise the utmost vigilance in overhauling vessels bound
toward Wilmington, and seize and send in for adjudication any and all
that you may find engaged in violating the blockade.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Captain JAMES ALDEN,
Commanding U. S. S. Fort Jackson, Hampton Roads.

	P. S.The Sumter, now called the Gibraltar, has been sold by the
rebels to certain parties in England, but the sale is not recognized by
this Government. You are therefore authorized and directed to seize
her and send her in for adjudication should you find her anywhere out-
side of maritime jurisdiction.
GIDEON WELLES.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Master Penneli, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. bark Ethan Alien, to cruise for the protection of fish.
ing interests in the Gulf of St. Lawrence.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, August 27, 1863.
	SIR: Proceed on another cruise with the U. S. bark Ethan Alien to
the eastward.
	You will pass through the Gut of Canso into the Gulf of St. Lawrence,
and, after visiting the points there usually frequented by our fishermen,
return to Boston. On your outward passage touch at Eastport, Me.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Master I. A. PENNELL,
Commanding U. S. Bark Ethan Alien, Boston.


Report of Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge,
of the cruise of that vessel in the Azores.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSAR~E,
Eayal, August 27, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform the I)epartment that since the arrival
of the Kearsarge, on the 10th ultiino, I have continued actively cruising
about these islands without meeting any of the rebel privateers, the
nearest approach of any of them we have news of being the Florida,
N W RYOL II2~

Page 434

434	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

which vessel, on the 15th July was 700 miles southwest of Fayal. I
learn, however, that the privateers were well acquainted with our
cruising ground, and it may be owing to this ~rcumstauce that the
islands have not been revisited by them.
	Our 1~rovisions having been nearly consumed. I shall proceed in a few
days (after the arrival of the mail steamer) to Cadiz, by the way of
Madeira, to replenish.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNO. A. WINSLOW,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Mohican, of
cruise in search of Confederate vessels near the equator.
U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Bahia, August 30, 18G3.
	SIR: I have to rel)ort to the honorable Secretary of the Navy that I
sailed from Rio on the 30th July on a cruise near the equator, and since
that time have touched at Bahia, Pernambuco, Itocases [As iRocas],
and Fernando de Koronha without seeing or hearing anything of the
piratical vessels.
	I have received your communication dated the 20th of June, and
shall follow up the piratical vessels wherever they go and use every
exertion to capture them.
	The officers and crew continue healthy, and our ship is in splendid
order.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	0.	5. GLISSON,
		Captain, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Report of the commandant navy yard, Portsmouth, N. H., of the pursuit
of a stolen schooner by the U. S. yacht America.
NAvY YARD, Pon TSMOUTH, N. II.,
	August 31, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that yesterday (Sunday) afternoon
the master of an eastern schooner loaded with lumber requested aid in
order to pursue his vessel, which h ad been run away with from this
harbor by her mate, an(l probably with the intention of going South.
I immediately directed Lieutenant Commander Matthews, of the school-
ship Marion, to send her tender, the America, in pursuit, and furnished
him with 10 additional men from the bark Fernandina. Lieutenant
Kane went in command of the America, with orders to remain out two
days if necessary. She left at about 4 p. m. yesterday, and the master
of the schooner went in her.
	I have the honor to be, most respectfully, your obedient servant,
G.	F. PEARSON,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
i5~ecretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 435

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	435

Report of Commander Carter, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. ilfichi-
gan, of the movements of that vessel in view of expected disturbances
at Buffalo, N. Y.
U.	S. S. MICHIGAN,
Detroit, ]Jlich., September 3, 1863.
	Sni: I have the honor to report the arrival of this ship at this place
on the 1st instant, and (lee IU it proper to inform the I)epartment of my
recent movements and the cause thereof. I was called to Buffalo, N. Y.,
by urgent juformation that great datiger was apprehended when the
draft was to take place; that there was an organization of some 7,000
ruffians determined to fire and destroy all the elevators, containing
millions of bushels of grain, in the vicinity of the creek. I proceeded
iniinediately to that place and put my ship in the best possible position
to act in case of necessity. I remained ten days, ready for any einer-
gency, and only left when the necessity ceased. The authorities of
Buffalo have made suitable acknowledgments of the service thus ren-
dered. I am now here, having received the enclosed telegraphic dis-
patch at Erie. The duty of recruiting, assigned to me by the Depart-
ment, has progressed as usual.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	C. CARTER,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Telegram.]

DETROIT, August 29, 18638:30 p. m.
	Important public business may demand your aid and that of your
steamer at this point any moment. As military commander of this
State, I request that you come to Detroit with dispatch.
J.	H. SMITH,
	Lieutenant-Colonel, U S. Army, Military Commander.
Commander U. S. S. MICHIGAN, Erie.


Report of Commander Parker, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tusca-
rora, of return to Boston from cruise for the protection of commerce.
U.	S. STEAM SLOOP TUSCARORA,
Navy Yard, Boston, September 3, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of the Tuscarora at this
navy yard to. day at 4 oclock p. in., having cruised for the last three
weeks in the track of our homeward-bound vessels from Europe to the
United States.
	We have been as far north as latitude 460 and longitude 440 W.,
about 200 miles to the northward and eastward of the Grand Banks of
Newfoundland, most of the time enveloped in a thick mist. We spoke
and passed many vessels, but saw none of a suspicious character.
	A great part of the time we were nuder sail alone with banked fires,
the screw l)ropeller being detached and revolving. This ship behaved
well under sail and proved to be a fast sailer.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. A. PARKER,
Commander,
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 436

	436	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		                 [Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT~ September 4, 1863.
	After delivering the dispatch of the 1st instant to Admiral Lee and
comiriunicating with the consul at Bermuda, remain in the vicinity of
Bermuda or cruise in the track of blockade runners between that
port and Wilmington, as you may think best. Your object will be to
intercept and break up the large illegal traffic carried on between those
ports. When out of coal return to Hampton Roads and report by tele-
gram and letter to the Department. Proceed to sea at once.
G.	V. Fox,
Acting Secretary of the Navy.
Captain JAMES ALDEN,
Commanding U. S. S. Fort Jackson, Hampton Roads, Va.



Report of commandant nary yard, Portsmouth, of the return to that yard
of the U. S. yacht America from search for stolen schooner ]Jfedford.
NAVY-YARD, PORTSMOUTH, N. H.,

September 5, 1863.
	SIR: Referring to my letter of the 31st ultimo, I have the honor to
report that the America returned to this harbor after an unsuccessful
cruise of two days in search of the schooner ]Jiedford, which vessel was
run away with by her mate.
	The school- ship Marion, together with the America, left here this
morning for Newport.
I am, most respectfully, your obedient servant,
G.	F. PEARSON,

Commandant.
lou. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Captain Price, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Jamestown,
regarding the unsettled condition of affairs in Japan.

U.	S. SHIP JAMESTOWN,
Yokohama, Japan, September 5, 1863.
	SIR: The external relations of this country continue so unsettled
that it will necessitate my continuance here for some time, or until
things. improve.
	The ruling classes greatly desire that all foreigners should quit their
country and never return to it again. This, however, the representa-
tives of the foreign governments seem resolved not to do b
they can, to enforce their treaty rights.	, ut, as far as
There are about 80 American residents here, and a larger iiumber of
Europeans, all of whom remain solely by the protection afforded by
foreign vessels of war. The French have a force of 400 soldiers on
shore and the English 250. The Dutch and Prussians also have large
guards at their respective consulates.
	This ship has kept a small marine guard at the American consulate
since the 15th of August, at the request of the consul and minister. In
addition, a system of night signals is established, by which arme

Page 437

OPEIEIATIONS OF THE Ol~UISERStTNtoN.	437

boats are to land for the protection, and if necessary the embarkation,
of the foreign residents, particularly the women and children, as the
men are organized into volunteer military compan~s.
	The affair of the Wyoming on the 16th of July in the Straits of
Shimonos~ki was duly made known to the Department before my arrival
here, and was creditable to that ship. Merchant vessels are often
nnprndent and even reckless in running into ports and places here not
open by treaty, thereby entailing upon their government the task of
redress, right or wrong. A small American steamer (the Monitor)
arrived here a week or ten days ago, originally from California and
last from Shanghai and Nagasaki, for sale. She, too, would have come
through the the Straits of S1mimonos~ki, and undoubtedly been fired into
and probably sunk, but that some native passengers (Government
officials) refused to come in her unless she took the outside passage,
which she did. I sent an armed force on board this steamer and kept
possession of her for a part of two days and the intervening night, at
the request of the American consul, whose communication in this con-
nection is herewith enclosed.
	After having given up his papers, paying port charges, etc., and also
the captain taking the oath of allegiance, the steamer was released. I
had, upon her arrival, boarded and examined her to see that she was
not a rebel privateer, ~s she carries four guns, two of them rifled.
	General Pruyn (the American minister) availed himself of this
steamer to make a short visit to Yeddo. I went up in her and spent a
coul)le of days in visiting the city and suburbs, attended by a native
guard, without any interruption whatever. General Prayn was
assigned a te7mple for his occupancy whilst there, and near where his
former residence had been burned.
	On the 15th of August a British squadron destroyed the town of Gogo-
Sima, three steamers, numerous junks, etc., losing in the operation 63
persons killed and wounded. The French squadron had previously
been fired into, upon which they landed a party and blew up two forts.
The Dutch had also been fired into, so that most of the foreign nation
ahtmes have some grievance more or less complicated to redress, the
United States perhaps the least, if anything at all, beyond the burning
of the ministers house (which they say was an accident) and the preju-
dice entertained against all foreignersnot by the masses, but by the
ruling classes. In the meantime the Prussian and Swiss agents are
waiting here to negotiate treaties for their respective countries with this
Government.
	There are now at anchor here 12 English war steamers, 5 or 6 French,
1 Prussian, 1 Dutch, and this ship, which constitute the foreign force.
	Late American newspapers received here say that four man-of-war
steamers are shortly to be sent to these seas, which I sincerely hope the
condition of afihirs at home may enable the (Aovernment to do, for they
could find ample employment between the Cape of Good Hope and this
place.
	American merchant vessels find great difficulty in getting freight or
insnrance from China or this place, not that any depredations by pri-
vateers have been committed up to this time that I have heard of east
of Cape of Good Hope, but rather beyond that in the tracks home and
to Europe. The moral effect, however, of an increased force in these
seas would be greatly beneficial to American commerce, whenever it
can be conveniently done.
	In the event of these vessels coming out here, I hope the Department
will assign to nine a steamer appropriate to my rank and standing. A

Page 438

438
OPERATIONS OF THE CRL1ISElJNIO~.
it is, iii point of command, I fare no better than if I had been coli-
demned by the retiring board or my loyalty was questionable.
I have the honor to be. respectfully, your obedient servant,
CICERO PRICE,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
&#38; cretary qt the Navy, Washington.

[Enclosure.]

CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Kanagawa, Japan, August 37, 1863.
	SIR: I beg to call your immediate attention to the action of the
steamer Mionitor, as she is called, now flying the American flag in this
port. This vessel reached this port on the 25th instant, at 12 oclock m.
In accordance with the first regulation appended to the treaty between
our Government and the Japanese Government, it is obligatory on all
American vessels arriving here to enter their papers within forty-eight
hours (Snndays excepted) at the consulate. This forty-eight hours
elapsed to-day at 12 m. At that hour I dispatched to said vessel the
U. S. deputy marshal with a communication, a copy of which 1 here-
with enclose.
	About two hours previous to the expiration of the forty-eight hours
limit the captain or commander of said steamer removed his anchorage
to a point where he supposed he was outside of the port, viz, a ii tie drawn
from Treaty Point northerly across the bay, and, as the sequel has
shown, for the purpose of avoiding the revenu&#38; , laws of this port. My
opinion is, the entire bay is the port of Kanagawa. But asi(Ie from
this question the intention I regard as particularly improper, and calcu-
lated to bring in disrespect our flag and raise a serious question with
the Japanese authorities, a matter that at this particular crisis should
be avoided by all means.
	I beg leave also to say her arrival and departure here without
registering her papers may well be regarded with suspicion. She is
flying our national flag, but does not conform to our laws and regula-
tions, and, for aught that may appear to the contrary, may be wrong-
fully doing so, and may be a privateer or Confederate cruiser seeking
what she may devour. The steamer carries. I am credibly informed,
four rifled guns, besides a full complement of small arms.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GRO. S. FISHER,
U.	S. Consul.
C.	PRICE,
L1aptain, U. S. ATavy, U. S. ship Jamestown.



Letter from the U. S. attorney for the State of New Jersey to the Secre-
tary of the Nary, requesting information regarding seizure of the
schooner Etta, formerly Uncle Ben.

OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY,
Newark, September 5, 1863.
	SIR: I have lately caused to be seized a schooner now called the
Etta, said to have been lately the rebel pirate Retribution. She cam

Page 439

OPERATIONS 01? THE CRUISERSUNION.	439

from Nassau with a cargo of pineapples. She is said to have been the
tug l)ropeller Uncle Ben. Will you inform me whether the Uncle Ben
was at any time chartered by the Government ~ ~If so, give me such
information as to her history as the records of the Department may
furnish.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
A.	Q. KEASBEY,
U.	~. Attorney, New Jersey.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
[Endorsement.]


	In May, 1861, being charged by the President of the United States
with the command of an expedition which required the use of tug-
boats, I chartered several through Itussell Sturgis, esq., of New York.
The Uncle Ben was one he chartered by my order. He can give you full
information in the premises. The charter party ought to be in the office
of the assistant quartermaster, U. S. Army, New York.
G.	Y. Fox.



Report of Commander Almy, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Connecti-
cut, of cruise of that vessel for the interception of blockade runners.

U.	S. S. CONNECTICUT,
Hampton Roads, Va., September 6, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of this steamer here,
after a cruise to intercept and capture blockade runners, in compliance
with orders* from the Department dated August 4, 1863.
	She has been out since August 11, and 1 have carried out and
executed those orders to the best of my abilities, exercising all possi-
ble vigilance and energy. I had the most watchful lookouts con-
stantly kept aloft on the wheelhouses and topgallant forecastle, reliev-
ing each other every hour in order that they might be fresh. I have
spent by far the greatest part of my time on deck during the cruise,
always up and on deck before daylight in the morning.
	I cruised offshore as indicated by the Department, on the tracks of
vessels bound to Wilmington from Bermuda and Nassau, changing
occasionally from one line to the other, according to the winds and
other circumstances, as my judgment dictated and the course which I
thought blockade runners would be apt to pursue.
	My &#38; ruising generally extended from soundings in 15 or 20 fathoms
of water out into the Gulf Stream. Occasionally I ran on a line or
zigzag course from off abreast Frying Pan Shoals up off abreast Cape
Lookout. To the southward and westward of this cape I discovered
the only blockade runner, as I supposed [iti to be, during my cruise,
which was in the middle of the afternoon of time 16th of August. His
masts and smokestacks were visible, but not his hull. I immediately
gave chase to the top of my speed, which I continued for four hours,
until after dark. The water was very smooth, and he kept about the
same even distance from this steamer, being equally as fast; I never
got sight of his hull. When dark came on she was then still distant
*5cc p.420

Page 440

440	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUTSERS1JNIO~.

some 10 or 11 miles, and I consequently had to give up the chase, very
much to my chagrin. Chasing an unseen object is a matter of so much
uncertainty that I deemed it of not as much importance as to the tak-
ing up a position where other blockade runners were expected to pass
at the time.
	After cruising for nine days without seeing but one blockade runner
and capturing none, I stood in toward New Inlet on the 22d of August
to communicate and consult with Admiral Lee as to the best course of
offshore cruising to intercept and capture blockade runners. With
feelings of exasperation I learned from him that a bark-rigged steamer,
with portholes pierced for guns, had a few days before got into Wil-
mington.
	It was while starting out again on the evening of this day that the
unfortunate collision with the Quaker City occurred, a report of which
has been made to the Department. The Connecticut continued cruising,
however, without interruption, on the tracks as indicated, with renewed
vigilance, if such a thing were possible, but of numerous vessels seen,
boarded, and examined, not one of them was of the character of a
blockade runner. The experience obtained in this cruise would cause
me to vary it a little were I to come out again, with, I should hope, bet-
ter results. If I have not caught anything, it certainly has not been for
the want of energy and attention. During this cruise the weather for
more than half the time has been extremely boisterous and stormy.
On the 27th of August it blew har(ler than I ever recollect to have seen
it in the course of my sea service of more than twenty-one years.
	On the 15t of September, standing in from olThhore, I was in the
vicinity of (lape Lookout, and with but two days coal on board, about
sufficient under ordinary circumstances to take inc to Hampton Roads.
Off here I fell in with the U. S. S. Aries, Captain Devens, broken
down in machinery, who had been fallen in with and taken in tow by a
small steamer of very little power, steaming toward Beaufort for shel-
ter from a gale of wind themi coming on. Besides her own crew, she had
on board 100 supernumeraries, invalids, and men whose terms of service
had expired. The approaching gale warned me that there was danger
of my coal not taking me to Hampton Roads. As I found that I should
have to take the Aries in tow, I accordingly went into Beaufort and
took on board 100 tons of coal during the gale.
	I considered it incumbent upon me, also, to look into Beaufort to
ascertain the condition of the Quaker (Wy, whether or not she had left
for the North; and if not, to enquire whether she required an escort, as
I was going North in compliance with orders. I found her still there,
having had her bows repaired, by which it was thought she could reach
Philadelphia. She went out on the 4th an(l made the attempt, accom-
panied.by the Connecticut. The wind being fresh from the northeast,
with some sea, she leaked, and had to put back; will have to do some.
thing more to her and try it when it is smooth. As previously stated,
I have experienced much heavy weather. Some carpenters, joiners,
and machinery repairs are required upon the steamer; not to any very
great extent, however. I have towed in the U. S. S. Aries, having
broken down in her machinery in a heavy blow.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	JOHN J. ALMY,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander.
&#38; erelary of the Navy

Page 441

OPI~RATIONS OI~	THE CRUISERSUNION. 441
~Te1egram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, &#38; ptember 1, 1863.
	After delivering the annexed order to Admiral Lee, off Wilmington,
proceed to execute the instructions addressed to you on 26th nltimo,
communicating with the U. S. consul at Bermnda and obtaining such
information from him as he can give.
G.	V. Fox,
Acting Secretary of the Navy.
	Capt. JAMES ALDEN,
Commanding U. S. S. Fort Jackson,
Now at or hourly expected at Hampton Roads Va.



Report of Acting Master Williams, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship
mo, of the cruise of that vessel near the equator in search of C. S.
steamers Florida and Alabamw.
U.	S. SHIP INO,
Brooklyn Navy Yard, September 7, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of the U. S. ship mo,
under my command, at the Brooklyn navy yard on the 7th instant.
	According to instructions from the Navy Department, 1 sailed from
New York on the 29th of May, 1863, and procee(led to convoy the ship
Aquila well i~mto the S. E. trades, which duty was performed without
meeting with any piratical vessels, and with smooth, pleasant weather
during the whole time. From thence I proceeded to cruise upon the
equator in search of the piratical vessels Alabama and Florida, touch-
ing July 20 at the Island of Fernando de Noronha for water. While at
that island 1 was informed by the governor that both of the rebel steam-
ers Alabama and Florida were there in the month of May, and that
our vessels, the Vanderbilt and Mohican, soon after; also that the Eng-
lish bark Agrippina arrived there upon the 17th of June with a cargo
of coal for the pirate Alabama, and not finding her there sailed the same
day for Bahia de Todos or Santos.
	I have cruised upon the equator from the latitude 10 30 N. to 1030
S., and from longitude 260 XV. to 40? W. The whole distance sailed
upon the equator was 3,500 miles, the distance sailed upon the cruise
was 1.3,650 miles, and gained no further information of rebel cruisers.
	On the 4th of August, 1863, 1 started for the United States, as my
provisions were getting low and as the time of enlistment of most of
the crew had expired.
	The following officers I beg may be detached from the mo, for con-
tumelious conduct toward me during the cruise: Acting Assistant Sur-
geon H W. Mitchell, Acting Ensigns Robert W. Parker and Henry
Welton.
	Hoping that my proceedings during the cruise will meet the appro-
bation of the Department,
I have the honor, sir, to be, your obedient servant,
JAMES M. WILLIAMS,

Acting Master, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy

Page 442

44~	OPI~RATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
Supplemental report of Acting ]lfaster Williams, U. S. Navy, command-
ing U. S. ship mo.

BROOKLYN, September 7, 1863.
	SIR:	In my general report I omitte(I to mention a conversation which
occurred with the governor of Fernando de Noronha, on the coast of
Brazil, in reference to Confederate vessels. He remarked he had orders
from his Government to fire iuto any of the above-named vessels touch-
ing there, they having been notified to that effi~ct; he also said he was
instructed to render every assistance to United States vessels who
desired it touching there. He informed me he had placed extra guns on
the citadel for the pnrpose of carrying out his instructions to fire into
them.
	The governor also advised me to paint my ship black, as Maffitt said
he could tell every vessel belonging to U. S. Navy by their cream-
colored paint. I did so, hoping it will meet the approbation of the
Department. I would respectfully call your attention to the condition
of the mo. She wants new copper and calking thoroughly. The mo
is a fast sailer and a first-class ship.
	Respectfully submitted.
JAMES M. WILLIAMS,
Acting Master, Commanding U. S. Ship mo.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Mohican, of
the condition of that vessel on arrmvai at Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Rio, September 8, 1863.
	SIR:	I have to inform the honorable Secretary of the Navy that I
have arrived at this port, with the boilers of this ship in a leaky con-
dition and the crank-pin brasses cracked. As soon as the necessary
repairs cau be made, and I can get reliable information of the move-
ments of the piratical vessels, I shall be off in chase. Enclosed you
have the report of the chief engineer on the boilers of this ship; they
are getting quite nnsafe, and she will either require new water bottoms
to the boilers or new boilers to be made for her.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	0.	5. GLISSON,
		Captain, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Commander Almy, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Con-
necticut, of preparation of that vessel for the execution of the Depart-
ments order.

U.	S. S. CONNECTICUT,
Navy Yard, Norfolk, Va., September 8, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the order by
telegraph from the Department to fill np with coal and report for duty
to Rear-Admiral Lee, or the senior officer off Wilmington, with which
I shall comply accordingly

Page 443

OPERATTONg OF THE (jt~U1SEESrNION.	443

	By permission of the senior officer in Hampton Roads, Captain Gan-
sevoort, I have run up to the navy yard here to have some necessary
repairs made, which were mentioned in a fbrmer ~omrnunication, and
I am coaling from the yard at the same time, that there may be no
delay in the execution of the Departments order.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOHN J. ALMY,
(Jommander.
	Hon. G. V. Fox,
Acting Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. liifohican,
regarding the reported movements of C. S. S. Alabama.

U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Rio, September 9, 1868.
	Sin: I have to report to the honorable Secretary of the 1~Tavy that I
have received information that the Alabama left the Cape of Good
Hope on the 9th August, steering to the northward and westward.
She only remained one day at the cape. If this information should
prove correct, it is probable that I shall fall in with her near the line,
where I am honnd on a cruise. I am in hopes that the Vanderbilt has
fallen in with her, as she sailed from Rio on the 2d August in the direc-
tion of the Cape of Good Hope.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Nickels, U. S. Navy, commanding
U.	S. ship Onward, of the movements of that vessel from March 30 to
	September 10, 1863.	~. S. SHIP ONWARD,

Navy Yard, Boston, September 10, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to submit the following report of my proceed-
ings since March last:
	After receiving my instructions, I proceeded to sea on the 30th of
March, and made the Cape Verde [Islands] on the 23d of April, as pre-
viously reported. Finding there the U. S. S. iVilohican, I sailed on a
cruise, after procuring a suppiy of water at Porto Praya. Leaving the
latter island on the 27th of April, crossed the line in 260 30 and con-
tinued cruising between this and the thirty-third degree west longitude
and from the equator to 50 5. until the 9th day of June, when I coin-
menced working to the southward and the Brazilian coast. Our water
becoming low, 1 put into Bahia on the 12th June, and found that the
pirates Alabama and Georgia had been there, the former leaving on tue
21st May, the Georgia two days later. I also found that the English
barks Agrippina and Castor had arrived there on the 4th June, loaded
with supplies of coals and gunpowder for the rebel steamers. To fins-
trate their designs I remained in port until the 25th June, at which date
they had been compelled to sell or otherwise dispose of their cargoes

Page 444

444	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISETh~UidoN.

In the meantime I procured my needed supply of water, apd on the
25th June sailed for Pernambuco, reaching that p%ort on the 28th June.
Then I got information of the rebels being to the southward, and hearing
nothing from the Florida, I concluded she had gone to the north. Know-
ing that Santos was a coal depot, I determined to go there, keeping in the
track of vessels to and from around Cape Horn, and if I could not
anticipate their movements to gain some knowledge of their where-
abouts. I accordingly sailed hence on the 2d July; arrived at the port
of Santos on the 16th July. After laying there until the 19th July, and
not getting the information of the enemys movements that I desired, I
concluded to ~o still farther south, sailing from Santos on the 19th July
and proceeding in the direction of St. Catherines [Santa Catharinaj,
but found the Mohiean had been in there. I sailed leisurely northward,
overhauling all vessels in the track bound around Cape Horn. I could
not gain anything further as regarded either of the rebel cruisers, and
learning from a Bremen bark that the Vanderbilt and another United
States steamer were in iRio de Janeiro, I concluded to direct my course
for Bahia, this being the best and in fact the only port on the Brazilian
coast at which I could procure good water. I arrived at Bahia on the
2d day of August. I was also in hopes to learn more of the rebels
course. After taking on board a stock of water sufficient for the pas-
sage northward, I weighed anchor and proceeded northerly in the track
of ontward a,id homeward bound vessels, as being my only means of
gaining informatiomi of the rebel cruisers, and overhauling everything
in my way. My provisions becoming short, I directed my course toward
this port as leisurely as my stores would allow me.
	I regret to state that in endeavoring to speak the British bark Jane
AS~piers on the night of the 22d August, owing to a Inistake of the helms-
man, I collided with her, springing the head of her mizzenm( st, carry-
ing away her wheel, and doing some other damage, and also carrying
away our jib boom. Thinking it best to compromise and settle the mat-
ter, I did so.
	I have to state further, that while in Bahia, finding a number of des-
titute American seamen, and knowing the scarcity of men in the United
States, I took the responsibility of shipping them. I accordingly
shipped 19 men. I would also state that the term of enlistment of
about half my men expires daring the month of September.
	I also beg leave to state that our quarterly muster rolls have not been
forwarded regularly on account of not having the necessary blanks.
They will be forwarded as soon as possible.
	In all my cruising I have endeavored to keep in the track of Amen.
can vessels. I trust my conduct will meet your apl)robation.
	Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	F. NICKELS,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, Commanding.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Kavy.


Report of Commander Preble, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship St.
Louis, of the cruise of that vessel in the Azores and Canary islands.

U.	S. SLOOP OF W~n ST. LOUIS,
Horta Bay, Island of Fayal, September 11, 1863.
SIR:	I have to report my arrival ii these roads from Teneriffe.
	Since my report of the movements of this ship up to the 18th of
August, from Madeira, I have visited Las Palmas, island of Gran

Page 444A


Page 444B

UNITED STATES STEAMER VANDERBILT

Page 445

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	445

Canary, and Santa Crnz, Teneriffe. It was my intention to visit the
island of Palma, of the same group, but learning by the mail received
at Tenerifh~ on the 2d that the Florida was last a~d recently reported
off Kinsale, Ireland, and that the Kearsarge had left these islands for
Cadiz, I thought it best to come directly here, remembering this was
the scene of the Alabamas operations at this season last year.
	We were becalmed after leaving Teneriffe on the 2d, and only lost
sight of Palma on the afternoon of the 4th, but from thence had an
excellent mu, and sighted St. Mary [Santa Mariaj on the 7th, after
which another calm prevented onr anchoring here until yesterday.
During these calms, which I understand are of frequent occurrence
around both the Azores and Canaries, we would have been a helpless
target for the heavy long-range rifles of the Florida, and could have
been no protection against her to others beyond the range of our guns.
	We have in port here at this time six Americaim whalers and a large
American ship, the Merrimac, of Newburyport, put in leaky for repairs,
a larger display of our flag than we have seen elsewhere since I took
command.
	Officers and crew are all well.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEG. HENRY PREBLE,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GInEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Van-
derbi it, of the cruise of that vessel from the island of Helena to Cape of
Good Hope, transmitting enclosures.
U.	S. S. VANDERBILT,
Simons Bay, Cape of Good Hope, September 11, 1863.
	SIR: I last had this honor from ~t. Helena, August 20, and, as I then
reported, I sailed the same day at sunset, having, by working all hands
for thirty-six hours continuously, succeeded in taking in the 400 tons of
coal I had purchased.
	I came down with two boilers, but evemi then, owing to the bad state the
boilers were in, I consumed fully 46 tons coal per day, making, say, 7~
knots against very strong S. E. trades,
	I arrived in this bay at 1 oclock out the afternoon of the 30th ultimo,
and waited well off fbr the pilot, who, on boarding us, informed me that
the Georgia had sailed from here at 7 oclock the previous evening.
	I at once went out again at frill speed, steaming for a point, say, 30
miles off Cape Agulhas, which very many vessels bound from China and
the East Indies make. Spoke English mail steamer and two vessels next
mormuing, and after[war ds] what proved to be the Dutch bark Johanna
Elizabeth, from Batavia, boumid to Amsterdam, with a valuable cargo of
sugar and tobacco, vessel and cargo said to be worth 40,000. She
luad 15 passengersofficers on leave with their families; had lost all her
topmasts and foreyards, also most of her sails, amid had her rudder badly
dam~ged and likely to go entirely at any moment. She had been imu that
sitimation over a month, and had but a poor prospect of ever reaching
port.
	The captain came on board to make known his state, and asked to be
towed into the imearest port, which was this, then distant, say, 95 miles.
	Although this application was exceedingly ill-timed, so far as this yes-
sds search w~s concerned, I at h~st conclnded that, on the score o

Page 446

446	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

humanity, I could not refuse it, although at first I had decided to offer
to take on board the crew and passengers, leaving them to abandon
their vessel.
	I was enabled to put him well inside this bay at daylight next morn-
ing, and then proceeded to sea again, as before, for off Cape Aguihas.
	During the two succeeding days I spoke some ten or twelve vessels
from various directions, but could gain no trace of the whereabouts of
the Georgia or the other privateers.
	My coal now being low, I ran in here on the 3d instant, and at once
applied to the chief authority, Rear-Admiral Sir Baldwin Walker, coin-
inander in chief of the British naval station.
	I enclose a copy of my communication, and of the admirals reply. I
found I could get 800 tomis of coal here, all there was in private hands.
This I had written the consul at Cape Town some days previously to
secure conditionally. I could get no further news of the Georgia or
her mates.
	I learned the former had remained here, under plea of repairing, for
two weeks, and had taken in 200 tons coal.
	The privateer barks I got no further news of except that it is highly
probable they were still in the neighborhood of Saldanha Bay, or
farther up the coast, say at Angra Pequeiia, or they might have gone
to Loanda to sell cargo.
	Our consul at Cape Town, Mr. Graham, has done everything in his
power to forward our progress.
	The admiral and the governor, Sir Philip Wodehouse, on whomh I
called at Ca~pe Town, have been very civil and polite.
	The appearance of this ship here, if attended with no other advantage,
has caused a much improved state of feeling, so at least our friends
say, and I think many at Cape Town who are [werel zealous in their
reception of the pirate Alabama are now rather ashamed of their
conduct.
	I leave to the consul the task of reporting the facts of the case in the
matter of the pirate prize barks being allowed to refit and sail again
as belligerents, and his correspondence with the governor on the
subject.
	On arriving, an examination of our boilers and smokestacks showed
them to be in even worse condition than I had before reported. The
lower part of the forward stack is so far gone that I hardly believe it
would have stood had we experienced a gale, which at this season is
probable at any day in this locality. The condition of the after smoke
stack is but little better than that of the one forward. My chief
engineer and his assistants have been hard at work since the hour of
our arrival, and I believe the forward smokestack is iii tolerable order,
for a time at least.
	The lower part of the fronts of all the boilers are in a very bad state,
notwithstanding all we could do for them at Rio. While at sea one or
the other is constantly giving out, and the iron is worn so thin that
there remains hardly anything to rivet to. This has now become quite
serious, and the time we have had in port has not beemi long enough to
do properly even what could be done by our oxvn people.
	The chief engineer, who is a thorough, practical workman, together
with his assistants, deserve great praise for the manner in which they
have got along with the incessant work, commencing the moment we
get into port and only ending to get underway.
	Two of my assistant engineers were seut away in prizes, and two
more have been and are quite sick

Page 447

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	447


	I have just finished coaling, having taken in 904 tons. The weather
has been very bad since I have been here, blowing very heavily, often
rendering it impossible to get the coal from sh~ye or keep lighters
alongside.
	I expect to leave here to-night, and have concluded to go off the coast
to the southward and eastward in the track of vessels from the East
Indies, and, failing any information, may go to Mauritius, distant, say,
2,400 miles. If nothing positive can be heard there, back here along the
west coast of Africa, looking in the several bays and anchorages, to St.
Panl de Loanda to coal.
	There are now about 46 men of my crew whose time of service has
expired, and by the 10th of November there will be, say, 100.
	On my arrival here I was invited in to state my claim for salvage on
the Dutch bark. I authorized our consul to say we had none; that I
knew it would give satisfaction to my Government to know that we had
been able to do any service to a vessel carrying the Dutch flag.
	This cause also, I think, has been of service to us here, my abandon-
ment of any claim on so valuable a cargo giving rise to much comment
in our favor among the English, and noticed in the Cape Town papers.
	I enclose copies of my last dispatch; the originals were sent from St.
Helena.
	Notwithstanding my bad luck in coming a few hours too late, I still
have some hope that we may be able to do some good service before our
return is necessary; at least, I shall do all in my power to that end.
	I had forgotten to mention that I supplied the American bark Nabob,
from Manila to New York with some provisions, she being short.
	There are now lying here the British flagship Narcissus, 50 guns,
screw frigate; the screw sloop Esh, 21 guns, on her way to New Zea.
land, and at Table Bay the paddle-wheel steamer Valorous, 16 guns.
	I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	II. BALDWIN,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclo8uresNewspaper clipping.]

The U. S. S. Vanderbilt and the Johanna Elizabeth.

	The following correspondence has passed between the Netherlands
and American consuls:
CONSULATE GENERAL OF TilE NETHERLANDS,
Cape Town, &#38; ~ptember 8, 1863.
	SIR: Having only returned from a weeks tour into the country late last night, I
learned this morning from my vice-consul how readily Commander Charles II. Baldwin,
of the U. S. corvette Vanderbilt, had rendered assistance to the Dutch bark Johanna
Elizabeth, Capt in Junius, when the latter vessel was in distress from loss of top-
masts, yards, and sails, and a broken rudder, off LAgulhas, by towing her to the
entrance of False Bay, a distance of 100 miles, and thus enabling her to reach and
safely anchor in Simons Bay on the evening of the 1st instant.
	1 beg through you to express to Commander Baldwin my acknowledgments for the
aid thus Tendered by him to a Dutch merchant vessel in distress, and to assure him
that the readiness with which that assistance was granted, and the disinterested-
ness evinced by Commander Baldwin in waiving all claims to salvage, are not only
highly appreciated both by the master of Jobanna Elizabeth and myselt bnt will be
duly hrought to the notice of his Netherlandic Majestys Government.
	I have the honor to be, with the highest consideration, sir, your most obedient
servant,
0.	J. TRUTER,
Consul-General of the Netherlands for all the British Possessions ia South Africa.
WALTER GRAhAM, Esq.,
~Qn5ltl of the United States/or Cape To

Page 448

448
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
U.	S. CONSULATE,
Cape Town, September 9, 1863.
	SIR:	I am requested by Charles H. Baldwin, commanders U. S. Navy, now in com-
mand of the Vanderbilt, to acknowledge the receipt of your thanks to him for an
act of humanity toward a vessel in distress belonging to a merchant of a friendly
nation.
	Having informed the master of the Jobanna Elizabeth a (lay or two ago that Com-
mander Bald win had anthorized me to waive all cli ims to salvage nnder the circum-
stances, especially as the vessel belonged to a nation which had never closed its ports
against American warships nnder aiiy circumstances, I have only to add that he feels
highly gratified that providential circunistances put it in his power to render the
required assistance. When I alluded to this matter at aii interview I had with him
recently, he said that had he been going westward at the tinie lie spoke the bark
the assistance would hardly have beeu deserving of thanks, as it would not have
decreased the speed of his vessel more than 2 knots an hour; but as it was linpor-
tant that he should proceed eastward just at that time, the assistance rendered inter-
fered with his plans. He added, however, that looking at the condition of the vessel,
which had been drifting about for over five weeks, and crossing her own tracks
frequently, as her charts showed, he could iiot resist the impulse to aid her as he did,
however much it niight interfere with the course lie had previously marked out.
	Hoping that this kind act of his may help to perpetuate the long existing amity
between the Netherlands and the United States of America,
I have the honor to be, sir, your miiost obedient servant,
WALTER GRAHAM,
U. S. Consul.
0.	J. TRUTER, Esq.,
Consul-General of the Netherlands, Cape Town.



U. S. S. VANDERBILT,
ASimons Bay, September 3, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform your Excellency of the arrival here
of this ship.
	I have put in this port to procure coal, my supply being almost
exhausted, and also to make some necessary repairs and overhaul my
engines and boilers, which, in the opinion of my chief engineer, will
require from seven to ten days to complete.
	I now respectfully request your Excellencys permission to procure
the necessary supply of coal and make the repairs above referred to.
	I have the honor to be, sir, with the highest consideration, your
obedient servant,
C.	II. BALDWIN,
Commander
Admiral Sir BALDWIN WALKER, R.	, U. S. Navy.
Commander in Chief H. B. ill. Naval Forces,
Cape of Good Hope.


H.	B. M. S. NARCISSUS,
Simons Nay, September 3, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
this dat6, and I beg to inform you that there is no objectiou to your
receiving the necessary supply of coals and making such repairs as you
may require at this port, in conformity with the proclamation of neu-
trality of her Majesty the Queen of Great Britain, of which you are no
doubt aware.
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant,
BALDWIN WALKER,

Commander ~. H. BALDWIN, Rear-Admiral, Commander in Chief
Commandiny the U, S. Ship of Wir Vanderbilt

Page 449

449
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
Report ~f Acting Master CoUins, U. S Navy, comnianding U. &#38; schooner
George illiangham, of the cruise of that vessel frr the protection of the
fishing interests in the Gu~f of ~t. Lawrence.

U.	S. SCHOONER GEORGE MANGHAM,
fleorgetown, Prince Edward Island, September 12, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that this vessel, after leaving the
navy yard at Charlestown, Mass., on the 14th ultimo, proceeded, in
accordance with your instructions, innuediately to the Gulf of St.
Lawrence, the passage out being accomplished in about ten days and
unmarked by any incident which merits mention.
	Since arriving in the gulf we have been crnising around and about
the Ma.gdaleii and Prince Edward islands, and as fir north as Cape
Gasp~. The appearance of our vessel in these waters has occasioned
among the fishermen, according to the statements of themselves and
others~ a feeling of security and protection while engagcd in the pur-
suit of their daily avocations~ As yet there has been no appearance
of any rebel in the gulf, though various reports to the effect that one
of their pirates had been seen have been in circulation.
	We have Lad the misfortune, during the storms which prevail more
or less in this quarter during the present season, of having our fore
gaff carried away oii two occasions, and are now here for the purpose of
having a new one made. As soon as this repair is accomplished we
shall proceed on our cruise among the fishermen, the greater number of
whom are now around here and the Magdalen Islands.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOHN COLLINS, Jr.,
Acting Jllaster, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge,
of departure for the Irish Channel in search of C. S. S. Florida.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSAR~E,
Ferrol, Spain, September 15, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that. on the arrival of the Kearsarge
at Madeira from the Western islands, 7th instant, information having
been received of the appearance of the Florida in the irish Channel, I
immediately left for that destination. I regret, however, to inform the
I)epartment that a continual heavy wind from the north and eastward
has retarded our passage and compelled me to I)nt into this port for
coals. Our detention here will not be over twenty-four hours, when
I shall proceed with all dispatch iii hopes of falling liii] with the Florida
before advices of our movements have been received.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNO. A. WINSLOW,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, P. C.
N W nvOL 112

Page 450

450	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report c~f Captain Alden, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Fort Jackson,
of arrival at Hampton Roads, giving account of cruise from September
4 to 16, 1863.
U. S. S. FORT JACKSON,
Hampton Roads, September 16, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report my arrival at this place, having been
compelled to return a day or two sooner than I otherwise should owing
to the burning of one of our boilers, which I am sure was the result of
sheer ignorance and carelessness. The circumstances connected with
the disaster will be found in the chief engineers report, which is here-
with enclosed.
	I will now proceed to make a detailed report of my proceedings since
I left this anchorage on the 4th instant. Touching off Wilmington, I
found the admiral had left. Thence I made all speed for Bermuda,
arriving on tbe 9th instant. f anchored outside the harbor, and sent a
boat immediately to communicate with the governor, and also to invite
our consul on board. The former evinced every desire to afford us
facilities for all necessary repairs and supplies, but at the same time
served the twenty-four-hour notice* upon me, a copy of which is enclosed.
The vice-consul (the consul being absent) came off and advised me, if I
did not wish to be detained, to put to sea at once, for the captain of a
blockade runner (the Ella and Annie) had gone to the governor for that
purpose. The vessel had come out of the harbor ready for sea, and was
then passing and repassing us, flaunting that symbol of rebellion and
occasionally dipping it to us in derision. This the authorities on shore
must have observed; as well as the insults offered our officers while on
their way to and from the governors quarters. I should have at least
called their attention to these things if I had remained there long
enough, and intended to do so on my return, but circumstances pie-
vented my revisiting that hospitable (a?) spot again. The vice consul
had very little to say, except that quite a trade had lately grown up
between that place and Wilmington. Some ten or a dozen steamers
were employed, and every facility afforded them, apparently, by the
people of Berninda to evade our laws. Time seemed to be pressing,
and as I wished to avoid the pending notification from the governor,
which would have inevitably detained me at least twenty-four hours, I
decided to go to sea immediately and watch outside.
Nothing transpired till the 11th instant, when we encountere(l a
heavy gale from the N. E. to B., with~ an ugly sea from the southward
and eastward. It lasted about twelve hours, during some six of which
it blew with more violence than I have ever experienced before, with a
tremendous cross sea. The ship labored some and shipped more or less
water, but she came out of it bravely, almost unscathed, proving her-
self a fine sea boat. The only damage sustained was the loss of the
ronudhouses from the forward guards, booby hatch forward, wash-
deck pump, and some spar-deck ports washed away, etc. We had
hardly, however, got these damages partially repaired and things set-
tled down into their places again, when, on the morning of the 13th
instant, the alarm of fire was raised. It was soon found to proceed
from the felt around the starboard after boiler, which had taken fire
fromii the excessive heat engendered iii the absence of water, all of which
had been permitted to escape from the boiler. By great exertion an
explosion was avoided and the fire extinguished, but the four furnaces
of the boiler are ruined and will have to be replaced. Iu this counec-
See vol. I, p. 325

Page 451

OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSUNION.	451)

tion I would state that the alarm of fire on board ship always occasions
more or less confusion and excitement, but I have never seen men under
aiiy such circumstances behave better than this crew did, although, as
you are aware, they are for the most part raw recruits, a great proportion
of them never having beeii to sea before. I observed the conduct of a
young officer, Acting Masters Mate George W. Sinoot, who behaved
particularly well in ascertaining the locality and extent of the fire and in
extinguishing it. I would therefore recommen(l that he be promoted to
acting ensign.
	Jn conclusion, as much has been said in regard to the probable
behavior of this vessel at sea, owing to her want of stability, etc., I
wonld beg leave to remark that I have seldom seen a better sea boat,
having had a fine chance to try her. She is somewhat tender, whether
deep or light, and if a single gun is run in and its opposite left out she
feels it at o~ce. rrhis makes her less acceptable to the service as a war
vessel thaii she otherwise would be, but 1 hardly think, however, any
change in her battery would better it. She is like some other vessels
of her class that I have seenthey get an unaccountable list, and when
you come to straighten them np over they go just as much the other
way. She is good for about III knots under very favorable circum-
stances, which will be, I think, her maximum speed, unless when driven
hard.
With great respect, I am, your obedient servant,
JAMES ALDEN,
Captain.
Hon. GIDE~N WELLES,
&#38; cretary of the Navy, Washington,]). C.



[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, September 17, 1863.
	Proceed with the Fort Jackson to New York without delay and report
to Rear-Admiral Paulding.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Captain JAMES ALDEN,
Commanding U. S. S. Fort Jackson, Hampton Roads.



Report of Captain Glissan, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. jlliohiean, of
the chase by that vessel, fro the harbor of Rio de !Jwneiro, Brazil, of
the bark Gracie, and transmitting correspondence relative thereto.

U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Rio, September 17, 1863.
	SIR: I have to report to the honorable Secretary of the Navy that on
the 13th instant, at 3: 3() p. in., the bark Gracie, late the Americaji l)ark
Fanny Crenshaw, improperly transferred to the British flag, got in der-
way in tow of a Brazilian steamer and stood out of this harbor. At
b p. in. I got underway with the U. S. S. ]lifohican and stoo(l down the
harbor, intending to capture the said bark as soon as she cleared the
~urisdictiou of Brazil, but as we cleared the fort we discovered th

Page 452

452	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

bark still in tow of the steamer, and returning to port. I continued
my course to seaward, and we soon passed the Gracie, standing into
the harbor in tow of the Brazilian steamer, ab~ut half a mile from the
shore, not speaking or interfering with her in any way. I remained at
sea all night and returned to port the following morning, when the
enclosed correspondence took place with Captain Craufurd, of her
Britannic Majestys storeship, lying in the harbor of iRio; also my
answers. I also enclose you letters marked A and B from our minister,
James Watson Webb, at this court which will more fully explain the
nature of this vessel. As the owners of the Gi~acie have made up their
minds that they will not allow this vessel to go to sea while the Mo hican
is in this port, and I deeming it of the utmost importance to get to sea as
soon as my repairs are completed in chase of the piratical vessels, I
shall not wait longer for this vessel to put to sea, but I am in hopes of
falling in with her off Cape Frio or near the equator.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	S. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.

[Enclosures.]

II.	M. S. EGMONT,
Rio de Janeiro, September 11, 18G3.
	SIR:	The English bark Gracie, properly dispatched in all due form by
the Brazflian authorities at this port, having put to sea yesterday after-
noon to proceed on her voyage to Liverpool, was obliged, in conse-
qu~nce of your having proceeded in chase in the Mohican, to return to
this anchorage last evening to seek protection.
	In the total absence of any just cause for such a proceeding on your
part, I have the honor to request an explanation of the same and to
protest against this unwarrantable interference with the commerce and
flag of a friendly nation.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
FRED. A. B. CRAUFURD,
Captain of IlL. 1111. S. Egmont and Senior Officer.

	Captain GLiSSoN,
U.	S. S. ]llohican.


U.	S. S. MOIHOAN,
Rio, September 16, 1863.
	SIR: Your communication dated the 14th instant was received late
last evening, and in answer I have to state that I have in no way inter-
fered with the birk Gr cie. Site left this port and returned with her
own free will, and I shall not under any circumstances interfere with
her departure from Brazilian jurisdiction.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	S. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
	FRED. A. B. CRAUFURD,
Captain of ill. ilL S. Illgmont and Senior Officer

Page 453

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	453


II.	M. S. EGMONT,
Rio de Janeiro, September 15, 18G3.
	SIR: I have to acknowledge receipt of your communication of this
date, in which you state that you have in no way interfered with the
bark Gracie, a statement which is scarcely borne out by facts.
	The Gracie is one of three vessels lately sold by public auction under
the authority of the Brazilian law courts,. the sentence of the said
courts pronouncing them to be the property of Mr. Barton Fletcher
Allen, of Liverpool, a British sul)ject, and her Britannic Majestys consul
l)eing satisfied that Mr. Barton Fletcher Allen is a proper person to
own British ships, and that they are entitled to a provisional register,
they have been furnished with i flag and papers, and are entitled to
every protection as being bona tide English ships.
	General Webb, U. S. minister at this court, has informed Mr. Consul
Westwood that he ignored the proceedings of the law in this country,
and has threatened to seize the said ships if found on the Atlantic.
	You have yonrself stated publicly your intention of capturing these
vessels wheu they proceeded to sea, and on the Grades proceeding to
sea, having been duly cleared by the Brazilian authorities, you imme-
diately start in chase, and she is therefore compelled to turn back for
protection.
	I therefore repeat that you have interfered with this vessel in her
voyage to Liverpool in a most unwarrantable manner, and to request
an explanation.
	I beg to forward copy of a protest made before the British consul at
this port by the master of the Gracie.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
FRED. A. B. CRAUFURD,
Captain and Senior Officer.
	Captain 0. S. GLIsSoN,
U.	S. S. ]Jilohiean.

Protest.

	By this public instrument of declaration and protest be it known
unto all to whom it may or shall concern, that on this 14th day of Sep-
tember, 1863, before me, John Julius Collings Westwood, esq., her
Britannic ~Iajestys consul in this city of Rio de Janeiro, personally
came and appeared Robert Talbot, master of t4me British bark Gracie,
who declared and said that the said vessel having been duly cleared
for Liverpool in ballast she was got underway and left the inner
anchorage yesterday at about 3:30 p. m. in tow of the steam tug
Incantavel, and after receiving the port visits she proceeded out of the
harbor~ passing Fort Santa Cruz at about 4:30; that an hour after
this, and when the Gracie was between Fort Santa Cruz and liaza
light-house, being still in tow of the steam tug, appearer observed that
the U. S. war steamer ]Iiliohican had left her anchorage and was in chase
of the Gracie, and having every reason to believe that if the said vessel
Gracie proceeded to sea she would be captured by the American war
steamer, he, the said appearer, gave orders to the towboat to return to
the harbor; that on the way back to the harbor the Gracie was met by
the Mohican, when the latter turned and followed the Gracie for some
distance; that on the Gracies return into the harbor she was anchored
between Fort Villegagnon and her Majestys ship Egmont, and the
protection of Captain Craufurd, the senior British naval officer in port,
was at once solicited

Page 454

454	OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSUNION.

	That in consequence of the hostile proceeding of the commander of
the aforesaid U. S. steamer of war Moltican, tbe voyage of the Uracie
is now delayed, and consequeiitly lie, the said a~pearer, hereby declares
on J)art and behalf of himself the owner of the said and
bark Gracie
those interested, to protest against the commander of the said war
steamer Mohican, or whomsoever it may or shall concern for such
detention, declaring by these presents that lie holds the said corn-
ruander of the ]lfohican, or whomsoever else it may or shall concern,
resJ)onsible for all losses, damages, expenses, costs, and prejudices that
have arisen or have been occasioned or that may arise or be caused in
consequence of the forcible detention in this port of the said Park
Gracie; and further he, the said appearer, declares to reserve to him-
self, time owner of the (iraCte, and all others interested the right to claim
from the Government of the United States for all such losses, costs,
damages, expenses, and prejudices caused by this officer, the atoresaid
commander of the Mohican, or l)y the act or acts of any other authority
of the Federal Government in this place.
	Thus done and protested, the aforesaid appearer has hereunto sub-
scribed his name, the place and date first above written.
ROBERT TALBOT.
	In testimonium veritatis:
JNo. J. C. WESTWOOD,
IL B. M. Consul.

	J, John Julius Collings Westwood, her Britannic Majestys consul in
this city Qf Rio de Janeiro, (10 hereby certify that the foregoing is a
true and faithful copy of a protest made this day before me by Robert
Talbot, master of the British bark Grade, said copy being carefully
taken and subscribed from a book kept in this office marked General
Register D, page 272.
	Given under my hand and seal of office at Rio de Janeiro this 14th
September, 1863.
JNO. J. C. WESTWOOD,
H.	B. M. Consul.
	True copy:
FRED. A. B. CRAUFURD,
Captain and &#38; nior Officer.


U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Rio, September 15, 1863.
	SIR: Your note of this date has beeii duly received, in which occurs
the following phrase:
	I therefore repeat that you have interfered with this vessel (the Gracic) on her
voyage to Liverpool in a most unwarrantable manner, awl to request an explana-
tion.

	This language precludes any answer or explanation, even if 1 recog-
nized yonr right to make such a demand. I content myself, therefore,
with remarking that I nmn acting nuder the directions of time minister
of the United States duly accredited to the court of Brazil.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
		0.5. GLISSON,
	FRED. A. B. CRAUFURD,	Captain, U. S. Navy.
Captain of 1+1. 111. S. Egmnont and Senior Officer

Page 455

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	455

A.

LEcfATION OF THE UNY~D STATES,
Petrojpolis, September 14, 1863.
	MY DEAR SIn: I have verbally explained to you the position of cer-
tarn rebel vessels in the port of Rio, which, by confiscation, have become
the property of the United States, but which certain British sub-
jects, favored by the British consul and the action of a local court, are
striving to convert into the property of an English house and then
convey beyond our reach under the British flag. It is unnecessary to
enter into any detail of the circumstances connected with this affair,
as you will find all the particulars on the books of the consulate, to
which I have heretofore referred you.
	1 have given notice in writing to the British consul that if he pre-
sumes to give these vessels British papers, in defiance of the protest
of our consul and this legation against their illegal sale and transfer,
I should direct any vessel of war of the United States on this station
at the time of their sailing to follow them to sea and capture them.
	Your first and most pressing duty in this region is to follow and cap-
ture the pirate Alabama wherever you may find her, and with that all-
important duty it is not my intention to interfere. If, however, while
you are in port waiting to receive intelligence of the whereabouts of
the Alabama, any one or more of the vessels referred to should sail from
Rio, I care not under what colors, it is my desire that you should follow
them, take possession of them, and send them to the port of New York
in charge of ~ prize crew, to be dealt with as our Government may
deterniin e.
	1 am told that the vessels referred to have already the British flag
flying over them, and if so, they unquestionably have British papers in
l)ossession, while proceedings are still pending in the Brazilian courts,
under which, if they should he unfavorable to the United States, they
will be claimed as British property; but until such adverse decision
there is not even a pretense for changing their flag. I do not think
they will be permitted to leave this port while you are here; but if
they should, you will follow and capture them as soon as they get a
good offing. And to prevent some pirate retaking them when nnder
the American flag, would it not be pru(lent to give orders to the prize
master you may put omi board to use tIme flag and papers which the
British consul may give them, in the event of being boarded by one of
the English l)irates now cruising under the Confederate flagl Should
you return to Rio after such capture it might be well to abstain from
reporting what yon have done, except to the U. S. consul and myself.
With great respect, your obedient servant,
J.	WATSON WEBB.

	Captain 0. 5. GLISSON,

U.	S. Navy.
	P. S.Seven oclock p. m.By the mail just arrived from Rio I learn
that it became necessary for you to act yesterday upon my verbal
instructions. I cordially approve of what you have done, and add this
note for the purpose of recognizing the fact that you have acted under
my instructions. 1 shall see you to-morrow.
J.	WATSON WEBB

Page 456

	456	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERStTNION.
		               B.
U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Harbor of Rio de Janeir~, September 17, 18G3.
	M~ iDEAR CAPTAIN: Should the French mail steamer arrive to-day
you will doubtless sail to-morrow in search of the Alabama, whether
you do or do not receive information as to her probable whereabouts.
In this I think you are right, and I do not desire to detain you a single
day to obtain possession of the rebel vessels. We have demonstrated
our total disregard of English arrogance, and that in defiance of the
prestige of the British flag we will take what is clearly our own, even
when protected by British papers and British colors. This fact having
been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the authorities and people of
Brazil, and our country having received the hill benefit of the lesson
taught, I care very little what becomes of the rebel vessels in relation
to which proceedings are still pending in the local courts of Brazil.
Fortunately, the British consul was foolish enough to grant the (iracie
British papers and British colors while the courts were still deliberating
upon the question of ownership, and thereby an English official became
a party to an attempt at running away with property which was nuder
the protection of and within the keeping of the courts. So we clearly
had a right to capture any one of these vess&#38; s wherever found, and I
claim that our right to do so would not have been impaired by a deci-
sion against us in a court which had no jurisdiction in the premises.
	It is quite possible that as soon as you 1)ut to sea the Gracie will
take her departure, aud you may fall in with her. If so, you will of
course take possession of her, but you are not to treat her as a prize
and regnI~te your proceedings accordingly. It will simply be a seiz-
ure of United States property illegally carrie(1 away, and you will send
her to New York in such manner as best suits your convenience. I
would not send either the master or ammy of her crew with her, but take
them either to Bahia or this port, as you may deem expedient, when
they should be sent to the British consulate, the ship captured having,
at the time of her capture, British papers and sailing under the British
flag.
	Wishing you a pleasant voyage and the good fortune to fall in with
the Alabama, believe me, my dear captain,
Your friend aII(l obedient servant,
J.	WATSON WEBB.
	Captain 0. 5. GLISSON,
U. S. Navy.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardncr, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of the condition and position of the vessels under his
command.
FLAGSHIP TICONDEROGA,
Cape Haitien, September 17, 1863.
	SIR:	In transmitting a statement of the position of the different
ships oC the squa(lron, I enclose reports relative to their machinery
and general condition.
	A survey on a very important part of the engine of the Ticonderoga
shows it to be disabled. As the Kingston valve and blowpipe open
out near the keel, any increase in this defect might endanger the ship.
It is probable that it may become necessary to send this ship to a
Northern port before I can hear from the Department

Page 457

OPERATiONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	457

	Of the Santiago de Cuba, the boilers and some other parts of her
engine have, from a long course of efficient service, become nearly
worn out; she can not cruise much longer.
	The Octorara is reported to be somewhat in the same condition.
	The Tioga is much in want of a feed pump, for which she has been
sent to Key West.
	The Juniata since leaving the United States has been more than half
the time repairing her engine. Very little, if any, work can be looked
for from that ship. If it were not for the very reduced condition of
the squadron, it would be expedient to send her to a Northern port.
	The Rhode Island has been coaling and repairing for the last fort-
night at St. Thomas. She is believed to be in a serviceable condition,
although her copper is bad.
Very res~)ectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	L. LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Nary.
LEnclosure.]

FLAGSHIP TICONDEROGA,
Cape Ilaitien, September IG, 18G3.
	Ticonderoga, flagship, Commander William Itonekendorif, at Cape
ilaitien.
	Juniata, Commander J. M. B. Clitz, repairing at Cape Haitien.
	Rhode Island, Commander S. D. Trenchard, repairing and coaling at
St. Thomas; is expected daily at this port.
	Santiago de Cuba, Captain T. P. Greene, convoying the California
steamers.
	Octorara, Lieutenant-Commander William W. Low, cruising off the
Bahama Banks and channels.
	Tioga, Commander henry S. Newcomb, cruising off the Bahama
Banks and channels.
	National Guard, Acting Master Commanding William Lee Hays,
storeship, at Cape ilaitien.
	(iemsbolc, Acting Master Commanding Oliver Thacher, storeship, at
St. Thomas.
	J. L. LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.



Report of the U. S. consul at Cardiff, Wales, of the tranofer of men from
C.	S. S. Florida at Brest, France, to Confederate ironclads preparing
	at Liverpool.	-~. S. CONSULATE,

Cardiff, September 17, 18G3.
	SIR: I feel it my duty to inform you that last Saturday, the 12th,
there were landed here from a French brig from Brest more than 60
men, brought from the pirate Florida, now refitting at that port. A
viler looking set of men 1 never before saw, fit body for fit head.
They said openly that they were going on to Liverpool to ship in one
of the ironclads there nearly ready for the rebels. They took the noon
train, and I telegraphed at once to our consul, Mr. Dudley, to watc

Page 458

458	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

them on their arrival. I have been two or three times a day for three
days to the French consuls to get their names, but without success.
He does not mean to give them to me. He says ~e has not got them.
	Query.Would these men thus be sent to Liverpool if it were not
confidently expected that these rams would be allowed to go outl
	I enclose a cut from an English paper on ironclads, which has some
very suggestive remarks and which you may like to see.
	With the most sincere respect aud esteem, your obedient servant,
CHARLES D. CLEVELAND,
U.	S. Consul.
Iioii. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy.



I?~port of Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge,
of the arrival of that vessel at Brest, France, and of the presence of the
C. S. S. Florida in that poi~t.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Brest, France, September 18, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of the Kearsarge at this
port, after a passage of forty hours from Ferrol, Spain.
	Subsequent to my dispatch from Ferrol to the Department I received
information that the Florida had put into Brest. This information
determined my movements, and on reaching this port I found the
Florida in dock undergoing repairs.
	The customary civilities having been extended, I waited upon the
admiral in command, with a view of ascertaining the state of feeling
existing, as also the character iii which the Florida was held. My
reception was cordial, and the admiral remarked that whatever his
personal feelings were, they could not be considered; that instructions
had been given to accord to the Florida the rights of a belligerent, and as
such the repairs necessary to equip her for sea service had been directed,
but that no furniture of armament or irmnnitions of war would be per-
mitted. I was further notified that the established rule, which must
iiot be violated, was that no two vessels of belligerent parties could
leave the port together; that one must precede the other twenty-four
hours in advance before she could be followed.
	I enclose one or two slips cut from the Kord, a paper published in
Paris on the 15th instant. The Department will see a reference to
claims made on the Florida for forcibly putting prisoners of war on
board two French merchant vessels, and the possible ultimate seizure
of this vessel.
	lieference is also made to 75 men who left the Florida for Cardiff, as
also the possible appearance of the Alabama at Cherbourg. The report
that the men left the Florida for some other vessel received some
strength from the fact that Captain Maffitt has been relieved in coiu-
mand and has left Brest. The name of the new commander I have not
as yet learned
	I would beg leave to call the attention of the Department to the posi-
tion of this port, which has evidently been selected by Captain Maftitt
from the difficulty of blockade.
	The entrance to the port is lined on either side with reefs of rocks,
which on the southern side extend iS miles seaward and on the north

Page 459

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	459

em side a farther distance. On either side, both north and south, a
channel runs close along the land; these with the main entrance making
three passages of egress, all of which should be b~ckaded.
	From the information that has reached me, I judge that two weeks
will elapse before the Florida can leave dock. I shall provision, and
before she is ready to leave take my station outside to intercept her.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNo. A. WINSLOW,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosure.]

Translation of newspaper cuttings.

	The 75 sailors who were disembarked by the Confederate privateer
now at Brest have arrived in England and taken possession of the New
Florida, which is rapidly fitting out.
	Two United States frigates (one of which, on dit, is at present at
Lisbon, and the other, from latest information, has recently left Ber-
muda) are expected at Brest in pursuit of the Florida; but that ship,
so soon as repaired, will be sold by her captain, who will then go to
England to take charge of the New Florida, with his entire staff and
all his ships company.La France.
They write from Cherbourg to the Courrier du llavre:
	The Confede~ate privateer, the Alabama, will probably come to Cherbourg.

	A letter received within the last few days by a person of our city
and addressed to Captain Semmes gives some foundation for this
rumor.
	The Florida and the opposition made by the maritime prefect of
Brest to the seizure of this vessel have greatly occupied the public
mind. We have reason to believe that an order coming from Paris
has caused the maritime prefect to act as he had done so as to protect
the inviolability of the military port.Pays.
	Pour la rubrique:
CAMILLE GUINIIUT.
La France of to-day says:
	Some details, not wholly exact, have been given in reference to the judicial inci-
dent relating to the Confederate privateer at present at Brest. According to the
laws and regulations in the matter, the Florida can not be seized in the arsenal; it is
only when the ship shall have left the arsenal to go to the commercial harbor that
the regular course of justice could be exercised.

	If it be a question of the information we have given, we can vouch
for the exactness of it by an eyewitness. If the Florida can not be
seized in the arsenal, which she entered on the 8th instant at 3 p. in.,
she might be seized the 4th of September in the roadstead; but the
l)ublic officer could not procure assistance. The seizure was made by
the maritime prefect in his character of harbor master. It does not
appear that lie has been held to account for it. Thus it was only a
matter of seizure for the purpose of holding the vessel while awaiting
jndgment. it is difficult to understand why this measure, which in
recognizing the Florida as a merchantman set aside all question of
international law, should have been without effect.
CAMILLE GUINHUT,
Editing Secretary

Page 460

460	OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of the U. S. consul at Liverpool, ~f the transfer of command of
C.	S. S. Florida from Captain ]Jiiiaffitt, C. S. Navy, to Captain Barney.

U.	S. CONSULATE, LIVERPOOL,
Tower Building, South Water Street, September 18, 1863.
	SIR: Captain Winslow telegraphed me last night froni Brest, in
France, desiring me to notify you of his arrival at that port in forty
hours from Ferrol.
	It is announced this morning that Captain Maffitt has resigned on
account of ill health and that Captain Barney is to take command of
the Florida. Captain Bulloch is at Brest. My information is that it
will require at least a month to repair the Florida.
	I have the honor to he sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
THOMAS H. DUDLEY.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy.


Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner,
U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, transmitting orders for
the transfer from his command of U. S. steamers Tioga and Octorara.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, September 22, 1863.
	SIR:	I transmit herewith orders for the Tioga to join the Eastern Gulf
and the Octorara to join the Western Gulf Squadron. These vessels
are withdrawn from your command on account of their light draft and
want of speed, which render them inefficient for the service in which
they are at present engaged. For the present your squadron will not
be increased unless the rebel privateers should appear in the West
Indies.
Very respectfully,
GIDEON WELLES,

Acting Rear-Admiral J~AS. L. LARDNER, Secretary of the Navy.
Commanding West India Squadron.
[Enclosures.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, September 22, 1863.
	SIR:	Proceed with the U. S. S. Tioga to Key West, Fla., and report
to Acting Rear-Admiral Theo. Bailey, as the relief of the U. S. S. Port
Royal, and for duty in the Eastern Gulf Blockading Squadron.
Very respectfully,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Commander H. S. NEWOOME,
Commanding U. S. S. Tioga, West India Squadron.


NAVY DEPARTMENT, September 22, 1863.
	SIR: Proceed with the U. S. S. Octorara to New Orleans and report
to Commodore H. H. Bell, or the senioi commanding officer present,
for duty in the Western Gulf Blockading Squadron.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Lieutenant.Commander W. W. Low,
Commending U. S. S. Octorara, West India Squadron

Page 461

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	461

Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific
Squadron, to Gaptain ]iiliiddleton, commanding U. S. ship St. Marys, to
proceed to the coast of South America for the pr~tection of American
interests there.
U. S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
San Francisco, September 22, 1863.
	SIR: On the arrival of the U. S. ship Cyane, Lieutenant-Commander
Paul Shirley, who has been ordered to relieve you, you will transfer to
hhn all instructions relative to the duties expected to be performed by
the commander of the ship of war stationed at Panama. You will then
proceed with the U. S. ship St. Marys, under your command, to Talca-
huano, Chile, from whence you will communicate by letter with the
Hon. Thomas H. Nelson, our minister at Santiago de Chile, informing
him of your arrival and intended visit to Yalparaiso. After a short
stay at Talcahuano you will proceed to Yalparaiso, where you can
remain some weeks. On your return north you will touch at Coquimbo,
Cobija, Arica, Chiucha Islands, and Pisco, and from thence to Callao.
Here you will replenish your ship with such stores from the storeship
as are indispensable. On your way back to Panama you will touch at
Payta.
	You are not required to confine yourself strictly to the above places,
but should you think it advisable you can communicate with any other
of the intermediate ports along the coast.
	The object of your cruise is for the protection of American interests
along the coasts of Chile, Peru, and Bolivia, and to check any attempt
that may be made by our enemies, foreign or domestic, to fit out ves-
sels to desti~oy our commerce on this ocean.
	In your iutercourse with the authorities, as well as private citizens,
of foreign powers in the places you visit, I need not urge upon you the
iiecessity of cultivating the most friendly relations.
	You will communicate frequently with me, directing your letters to
Panama, to which place you must returnon or before May 1, 1864.
	Previous to sailing from Panama you will, if possilde, supply your-
self with sufficient funds to last until your return.
	Wishing you a pleasant cruise and safe return,
	I am, very respectfully, yours,	CHAS. H. BELL,

	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Captain EDWARD MIDDLETON,
Commanding U. S. Ship St. Marys, Panama.


Order of Acting Rear-Admiral Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific
Squadron, to Lieutenant- Commander Shirley, commanding U. S. ship
(yane, to proceed to Panama, New Granada, for th~ relief of the U. S.
ship St. Marys.
U. S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
San Francisco, September 22, 1863.
	SIR:	When you are in all respects ready for sea you will proceed
with the U. S. ship Cyane, under your command, to Panama, and report
to Captain Edward Middleton or the senior officer at that place. As
soon as convenient after your arrival you will send to New York those
men whose times have expired, retaining on board a sufficient number
to keep your shi.p effective until reliefs are sent from the United States

Page 462

462	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

The men you send home, you will have their accounts transferred to
the receiving ship at New York and their passages paid. For such
funds as you may require while at Panama you ar~ authorized to draw
on the Navy Department, payable in gold at five days sight. The
commander of the St. Marys will be directed to hand over to yon all
instructions which he has received relative to the duties which ic or
may be required while your ship is in Panama Bay. While at anchor
in that port you must guard against sudden surprise, particularly fr~in
steamers at night, drilling your men so that they may be prepared at a
moments notice to come on deck with arms ready, without the delay of
dressing. On your way to Panama you will examine every vessel which
has the slightest suspicion of being en gaged against our flag. You will
be pleased to communicate with me at least once in eadi month, directing
your letters to San Francisco until further orders.
Wishing you a short and pleasant passage,
I am, very respectfully, yours,
CHAs. H. BELL,
Acting Rear- Admiral, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Lieutenant-Commander PAUL SHIRLEY, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. ship Gyane, San Francisco.


Report of Commander Clary, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Tioga, of
the capture by that vessel ~f the steamer Herald.

U.	S. S. TIOGA,
North Bahama Bank, Lat. 27~ 15 N., Long. 780 55 W.,
September 25, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform you of the capture of the rebel
steamer Herald, of about 150 tons burden, James Freeborn, master, from
Darien, Ga., bound to Nassau, New Providence.
	The only papers we find on board are the manifest of cargo, con-
sisting of 250 bales of cotton, 10 barrels of turpentine, and 10 barrels
pitch; also a bundle of letters. Her flag was burned during the chase.
She is out of fuel and I am compelled to tow her ilito Key West for
supplies. I propose to dispatch her to Boston in charge of Acting
Master Thomas King for adjudication.
	Accompanying this is the prize crew list for the same.
Your very obedient servant,
A.	G. CLARY,

Commander, U. S. Navy.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Letter from the U. S. minister to France to Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy,
comma~ding U. S. S. Kearsarge, regarding the steamer Southerner and
C. S. S. Florida.
L3~GATION DES f~TATS-UNIS,
Paris, September 25, 1863.
	SIR:	The following is a copy of a letter which I have just received
from the U. S. consul at Messina, Mr. F. W. Behn, dated 21st Septem-
her, 1863:

	I have only time to inform you that the privateer Southerner, under command of
Captain Butcher, arrived on the 17th instant from Alexandria, at Malta, with 313
Turkish pilgrims on board, bound to Algiers

Page 463

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	463

	This is important, if true; but it is difficult to un(lerStand how she
could have got to Alexandria without our knowing of it, or how she
happens to be transporting Turkish pilgrims.
	I think you would do perfectly right in protesting to the French
authorities in case the Florida attempted to complete her crew by
enrolling men in France to replace the 75 who have gone to England.
I beg that you will let me know as soon as any indications of this fact
appear, in order that I may object officially to the minister of foreign
affairs at Paris.
Jam, sir, your obedient servant,
WM. L. DAYTON.
	Captain WINSLOW,
U.	S. S. Icearsarge, Brest.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, stating the dispo-
sition of the vessels under his command.

CAPE HAITIEN, September 28, 1863.
	Ticonderoga, Commander William Ronekendorif, ordered to Phila-
delphia for repairs of engine.
	Rhode Island, Commander S. D. Trenchard, flagship, at Cape Haitien.
Juniata, Commander J. M. B. Clitz, convoying the California
steamers.
	Santiago d~ Cuba, Captain T. P. Greene, at C ape flaitien, patching
boilers and making other repairs.
	Octorara, Lieutenant-Commander William W. Low, cruising off the
Bahama Banks and channels.
	Tioga, Commander Henry S. Newcomb, cruising off the Bahama
Banks and channels.
	National Guard, Acting Master Commanding William Lee Hays,
storeship, at Cape ilaitien.
	Gemubok, Acting Master Commanding Oliver Thacher, storeship, at
St. Thomas.
J.	L. LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
[Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.]


Report of Commander Preble, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship St.
Louis; of the arrival of that vessel at Lisbon, Portugal, from a cruise of
ninety-eight days.
U.	S. SLOOP OF WAR ST. LOUIS,
Lisbon, September 29, 1863.
	SIR: I have to report the return of the St. Louis, under my command,
to this port, after an active cruise of ninety-eight days. During her
absence she has visited Cadiz (twice), Safi and Mogador, in Morocco;
Funchal, island of Madeira; Las Palmuas, Grand Canary, Santa Cruz,
Teneriffe, and ilorta, Fayal.
	Although she has repeatedly crossed and recrossed the sea routes
(to and from) between theUnited States and the Mediterranean and
Europe, we have in all this cruise met with but one American me

Page 464

464	OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISEESUNLON.

chant vessel at sea. This fact, on a sea poetically supposed to be
whitened by our commerce, illustrates the difficulties attendant upon a
search after the two or three rebel cruisers a~at, whose movements
are ubiquitous and designed to evade collision with our vessels of war.
	Our arrival here yesterday was most opportune. Having saluted the
Portuguese authorities and the flag of the Portuguese admiral as we
stood up river, we had scarcely dropped anchor in front of the city,
and had not yet furled sails, when the ringing of bells and salvos of
artillery from the shore, and a hundred guns from each vessel of the
Portuguese fleet, proclaimed the birth of a son and heir to the throne of
Portugal. I joined in these congratulations by dressing ship as usual
in such cases and honoring the Portuguese flag with another national
salute of twenty-one guns. Last night the city was brilliantly illu-
minated, and a three (lays holiday has been proclaimed.
	We are the only foreign vessel of war in harbor, and the absence of
all English and French men-of-war is much noted. An Italian squad-
ron is daily expected to arrive.
	I learn since my arrival here that the rebel steamer Florida has been
detained at Brest and sold, her crew discharged, and her captain gone
to England.
The officers and crew of the St. Louis are all well.
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEO. HENRY PREBLE,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Captain Steliwagen, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Con.
stellation, of the rumored presence of steamer Southerner and advising
the presence of United States vessels at Port ]Jiliahon, ]Jlinorca.

U.	S. SHIP CONSTELLATION7
Port ]liLahon, October 1, 1863.
	SIR: I have to report that, finding the seaman from this ship still in
prison and believing his case one of great hardship, if not injustice, I
wrote to Mr. Koerner, minister at Madrid, who, by telegram, answered
me that all should be done for him that is possible, and I have waited
two or three days awaiting further developments. The opinion seems
to be general that Hyde is innocent. 1 presume Commodore Thatcher
made a full report to you on the subject. The matter was referred by
him and the consul to the legation and the State Department.
	I have received several conflicting statements from consular officers
concerning a vessel under English colors, commanded by an English
captain, Butcher. She is supposed to be the Southerner, prepared to
receive her armament and crew; tI iat Captain Jefft~rson I~age,late~y
known to be in Florence, is to command her. One report is that she is
on her way to Algiers with 313 Turkish pilgrims. I am using all means
to ascertain facts and to intercept her.
	1 wish to call your attention to the fact that she is remarkably fast,
having, it is said, made 18 knots an hour on her trial trip, is well armed,
or to be so, and with facilities given by the English ports of Malta,
Gibraltar, etc., and the French at Algiers, Marseilles, Toulon, etc., she
will have a chance of preying on our commerce to a ruinous extent. 

Page 465

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	465


would earnestly recommend that some well-armed and fast steamers
should be sent to this station as soon as possible, and to repeat the facts
often reported, I am told, of this ship not being akle to carry sail well
or to fight her battery hi heavy weather, owing to her being very crank.
Very respectfully, etc., your obedient servant,
II.	S. STELLWAGEN,
Captain.
Hon. G. WELLES,
Secretary Navy, Washington.



Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Mohi can,
of the condition of that vessel on arrival at Bahia, Brazil.

U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Bahia, October 2, 1863.
	SIR I have to report to the honorable Secretary of the Navy the
arrival of the U. S. S. Mohican at this port. On the 23d of September
we discovered that the port coal bunker was on fire, caused by spon-
taneous combustion in some bituminous coal taken in at Bahia ah~ ~
six weeks since. Streams of water were started on it immedia~t~iy,
and we removed all the coal front the bunker on fire to another bunker
and found that no damage had been done to the ship except the char-
ring of the boards that cover the boiler on the port side. To add to
the disaster, .our port boiler gave out and we were compelled to plug it
with wooden plugs until we could reach this place, where we could
have it patched. I have employed boiler makers from shore and will
complete the repairs this day and sail in the morning on a cruise near
the equator. The boilers of this ship are getting in a very bad condi-
tion and are quite unsafe to carry a heavy pressure in chase.
	I have received your letter* of 10th August and also duplicate of
order dated June 20. As my letter iNo. 21* appears not to have reached
the Department, I herewith enclose the triplicate, the duplicate having
been previously forwarded.
	The officers and crew continue to enjoy good health.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of CoHmander Newcomb, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Tioga, of the arrival of that vessel at Key West, lila.
U.	S. S. TIO~A,
Key West, lila., October 3, 1863.
	SIR: In obedience to orders of the 27th of August last, I have
reported to Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner for the command of this ves-
sel. I have this day assumed command of the Tioga, and in obedience to
orders from the honorable Secretary of the Navy of the date of Sep.

~ Unimportant.
	N WRYOL II	3

Page 466

466	OPERATIONS 013 ThE CRUISERSUNION.

teinber 22, 1863, have reported to Acting Rear-Admiral T. Bailey as the
relief of the U. S. S. Port Royal and for dnty in the Eastern Gulf
Blockading Squadron.
I have the honor to be, your most obedient servant,
	HENRY S. I{EWCOME,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Acting ]Ilaster Collins, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. schooner
George ]Jlangham, of intended breach of blockade by Confederate steamer,
via Nassau, New Providerwe.

U.	S. SCHOONER GEORGE MANGHAM,
Summerside, Prince Edward Island, October 5, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that since the date of my last com-
munication we have, in consequence of the adverse winds which have
prevailed, been under the necessity of putting in both at Charlotte
Town and here. The Government authorities at each port have noti-
fled us of a proclamation lately issue(l by the Queen which will not
	war vessels belonging to the United States or so-called Confed-
erate States Government to remain in her Majestys waters longer
than twenty-four hours. In accordance with this, we remained no
longer at Charlotte Town than was actually necessary. We shall leave
~this port this afternoon.
	The U. S. bark Lthan Allen, Acting Master Pennell, commanding,
who was also at Charlotte Town, and whose presence here I have the
honor to report, received similar messages.
	There is a report current here, evidently well founded, to the effect
that a rebel steamer left Shediac, about 40 miles from here, this morn-
ing for Picton, whence she will proceed to Nassau, preparatory to
making a trial of the blockade on the Southern coast. Her owner is
reported to be on board, together with certain rebel officials, and it is
stated that she will be ultimately converted into a war steamer. This
vessel is 200 feet long, and is epresen ted to be of great speed.
	I trust that should the representations which have been made by
parties here be correct, the substance of which is hereinbefore stated,
some good may result from the knowledge of them by the Department.
	I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
JOHN COLLINS, Jr.,
Acting Master, Commanding U. S. Schooner George ]iliangham
Hon. GIDEON WELLES

Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Commander Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Van-
derbilt, of arrival of that vessel at Port Louis, Mauritius, and intended
return to the United States.
U.	S. S. VANDERBILT,
Port Louis, Manritius, October 5, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my arrival here on the 24th Septem-
ber, having sailed from ~ Ray on the 11th.
	(in leaving the latter port I first went oft Cape Aguihas and spoke
some vessels from various ports farther east, but obtained no infor-
mation

Page 467

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	4G 7

	I did not go on to Algoa Bay, as the mail steamer from that povt
arrived at Simons Bay just previous to my (leparture all(l had no news,
so I kept as much as possible in the track of ship~, but heard nothing
further.
	From information I received just before leaving Simons Bay, that
the Georgias bottom (iron) was quite foul and that she had intended
waiting there until the ship, which was taken down, was repaired, to
clean it, I conclude she was likely to come on here, the nearest point
at which there is a dry dock, and also on account of this port being
visited by very many of our merchant ships.
	I arrived off the harbor on the evening of the 23d and spoke a Dutch
vessel just out, and ascertained there was no steamer here, but the
captain could give no further information,so the next morning I came
in, my boilers again wanting much patching.
	During my voyage hither we experienced one day of very heavy
weather, during which one of the boilers we had steam on gave ont,
so we had to make haste to shift them and run the water off~ the other
and repair on the voyage.
	Immediately I arrived I called on the acting governor, Major-General
Johnstone, commander in chief of the forecs, and requested permissioli
to repair and fill up with coal. I enclose copies of the correspondence.
	I find the general exceedingly kind and quite hearty in his manner.
At my first interview he invited me to dine at his country house.
	The officers of the two infantry regiments, also of the engineers and
artillery, called on board to pay their respects.
	The civil efficers and residents of the island, especially the French
Creoles (a large proportion of the planters being of French descent),
seem to be exceedingly well inclined to our cause, thou gh, with the
English especially, it may be our recent glorious successes on the Mis-
sissippi, [in] Maryland, etc., are somewhat the occasion of thisto our
experiencenew state of things.
	It is my most unpleasant duty to report that on overhauling we dis.
covered our starboard shaft to be cracked. A portion of the crack
seems to have been quite recent, probably having occurred during our
recent heavy weather on the voyage here, though theim we were carry-
ing very low steam, say 7 to 9 pounds, close shut off, while during the
time this vessel was running between New York and llavre they usually
carried 20 and even 25 pounds, wide open. The crack is about 2 feet
within the ships side. We have built a platform of heavy timber to
catch it, should it break entirely offi I enclose the chief engineers report.
	Although, as I have had occasion for several months past to report
to the Department, our boilers and tubes are quite run down, still nuder
the present circumstances, and in the absence of any other Tjnited
States vessel in these most important waters, I think I should have
strained a point and gone on to the Strait of Sunda and that neighbor-
hood, under the impression that one of the pirates might have gone
on to that point, though I have heard nothing of them there. Under
the present circumstances, I think the Department will approve my
course in making the best of my way home.
	I have taken in 600 tons of coal, and hope to have the boilers suffi.
ciently repaired to sail from here on the 7th or 8th, an(I prepared, if the
weather is moderate, to go first to the northward in the direction of the
Seychelle Islands, as I learn a great many American whalers arc cruis-
ing there, and it may be the Georgia is about; indeed, a day or two
since, our consul told me there was such a report about town, having
come from an English ship that had stopped here for water and only
remained a few hours. From there I propose going along the east coas

Page 468

468	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNIOT~.

of Madagascar, hoping to hear further from the two rebel barks, or
through the channel to Algoa Bay and Cape Town, at which place I
hope to get coal; from there either along the co~t of Africa as far as
Loanda or via St. Helena to Bahia and home.
	In ally event, in my present crippled condition, I shall have to go
along slow and nurse the shaft as much as possible, unless occasiou
should present, when I am willing to take auy risk for corresponding
chances of success.
	I beg to remiiid the Department that all our repairs in this part of
the world have to be done entirely by our own people, it being impos-
sible to obtain any mechanics or boiler makers in these ports.
	There are some five or six American ships here at present, two of
which arrived since this vessel. In ordinary times, I understand, it is
usual for from forty-five to fifty American vessels to visit this port.
	Our present examination and overhauling of the boilers shows them
to be in even a worse state than we had supposed, the after boilers
being as far gone as those forward.
	The engineers and tire crew have been hard at work until far into the
night ever since our arrival here, and as yet we have not succeeded in
getting the boilers tight, though I still hope to sail by the 7th or 8th.
Enclosing copies above referred to, and duplicate of my last dispatch,
1 have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
C.	H. BALDWIN,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secro~ary of the iYacy, Washington, D. C.

[Ene1o~ures.]

U.	S. S. VANDERBILT,
Port Louis, September 24, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform your Excellency of the arrival here
of this ship.
	I have come into this port for the purpose of obtaining a supply of
coal and making some necessary repairs on my engines and boilers,
which in the opinion of my chief engineer will require from seven to
ten working days.
	Trusting your Excellency will see no objections to my remaining,
	I have the honor to be, sir, with the highest consideration, your
obedient servant,
C.	H. BALDWIN,
tiommander, U. S. Navy.
	His Excellency Major-General JOUNSTONE,
Commander in Chief Her Britannic Majestys Naval Forces,
and Governor of lllauritins.


COLONIAL SECRETARYS OFFICE,
Mauritius, September 24, 1863.
	SIR: 1 am desired by his honor the officer administering the govern-
ment to acknowledge receipt of your letter of this days date, and to
convey to you in reply his honors authority to have the necessary
repairs effected to your engine and boilers. His honor does not, how-
ever, feel himselfjustified imi granting you permission to remain in this
port for this purpose for any specified time, as under the instructions
he has received from the right homiorable the secretary of state suc

Page 469

469
OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSUNION.
repairs should be completed with the greatest possible expedition, and
your vessel should proceed to sea within twenty-four hours after such
completion.
	His honor therefore will give you permission to remain in this port
for the time necessary to have the repairs to your machinery, etc., com-
pleted, on receiving from you the assurance that such repairs will be
executed without loss of time, and fiuther, that you will strictly con-
form to the rules laid down by the Imperial Government, copies of
which were this morning handed to you by the harbor master.
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant,
EDWD. RUSH WORTH,
Acting (Joloniat Secretary.
	Captain C. II. BALDWIN,
Commanding U. S. S. Vanderbilt.


U. S. S. VANDERBILT,
Port Louis, September 25, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communi-
cation of yesterday, informing me that I have permission to remain in
this port for the time necessary to have my machinery, etc., completed,
on receiving from me the assurance that such repairs be executed with-
out loss of time, and further that I strictly conform to the rules laid
down by the Imperial Government.
	Receive from me the assurance there shall be no delay in completing
my repairs at~ the earliest possible moment.
	The strict instructions which I am under from my own Government
may bethe assurance that I shall most scrupulously regard the promises
of her Majestys proclamation of neutrality.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
C. II. BALDWIN,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
EDWD. RUSH WORTH, Esq.,
Acting Colonial Secretary.


Letter from the U. S. consul at Liverpool to Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge, regarding the shipment of crew for the
C. S. S. Florida.
U.	S. CONSULATE, LIVERPOOL,
Tower Building, South Water Street, October 5, 1863.
	DEAR SIR: I wrote you sonic days ago that they were about to ship
crew for the Florida here at Liverpool. Judge Dayton writes me to
telegraph you as soon as it is done, with description of vessel, etc.
Thinking it would be best to do this in cipher, I enclose you a key which
will no doubt be sufficient to meet the case. I hope you will under-
stand it.
	They have not yet shipped the men~ there is som3 difficulty about
it.	The time was fixed and men requested to be there; they went and
were told they were not ready for them. It may be that they will get
off without my knowledge. I shall watch them as closely as I can.
	Yours, etc.,	THoMAS H. DUDLEY

JNo. A. WINSLOW, Esq,

	I sent you some papers, but the French do not always deliver news-
papers

Page 470

470	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Acting Master Collins, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. schooner
George ]JiEangharn, of the cruise of that vessel for the protection of the
fishing interests in the vicinity of Prince Edward Ysland.

U.	S. SCHOONER GEORGE MANGITAM,
Georgetown, Prince Edward Island, October 6, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that the cruise of this vessel since
my last report has been directly around the Madeline [Magdalen] and
Prince Edward islands, where the fishing vessels in large numbers
have been directing their operations.
	From the date of our leaving Boston up to the present time there has
not been the slightest indication of any pirate iu the gulf, notwithstand-
ing reports to the contrary, and at this time there appears to be a
general feeling of security among all our fishermen. Lu this respect a
marked change is observed, as in the beginning of the season many
of them mani1~sted considerable apprehension.
	To-morrow, should the wind and weather prove favorable, we shall
leave this port for the Madelines [Magdalensj and Sydney (Cape Bre-
ton), where the fishermen generally congregate at this season, owing to
the fine fishing and good shelter from the storms which prevail.
	I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant
JOHN COLLINS, Jr.,
Acting Master, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington City, D. C.



Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Mohican o
the arrival of that vessel at Pernambuco, Brazil, seeking
information of
the C. S. steamers Georgia and Alabama.

U. S. S. MOHICAN,
Pernambuco, October 9, 1863.
	SIR:	I have to report to the honorable Secretary of the Navy the
arrival of U. S. S. Mohican at this port and that I have notheard anything
positive of the Alabama and Georgia. The French mail will be here in
a day or two, when I am in hopes of obtaining some positive information
of their movements so that I can follow them up. It will be well for
the Department to continue directing my letters to Bahia, Brazil, and
I will make arrangements to have them forwarded to me wherever I
go. The officers and crew continue to enjoy good health.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
		0.S. GLISSON,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Captain, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge,
regarding the shipping of recruits in England for the C. S. S. Florida.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Brest, France, October 9, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform the Department that the Florida
still remains in this port undergoing repairs of machinery. From th

Page 471

OPERATIONS OF THE CRIJISERSUNION.	471

most reliable sources I learn that parts of the machinery ordered in
Paris will be shipped by the packet of the 13th instant from Hayre.
It is therefore fair to infer that she will not be read?for service before
the latter end of this month.
	My attention was directed at an early period to the probability that
recruits would be shipped in England to make up the complement of
the Floridas crew, and I advised Mr. Dayton (our minister) of my
views, suggesting that a protest would elicit an order of interdiction
from the French Government.
	Subsequently I was informed by Mr. Dudley that recruiting was in
process in Liverpool, and the 29th of September the day appointed for
signing the articles. I immediately notified Mr. Dayton, requesting
him in the event of the order of interdiction not supervening that he
would instruct Mr. Dudley to telegraph me the immediate departure of
the recruits, with character of the vessel. This has been done and a
cipher mode of telegraph arranged. Mr. Dudley, however, writes to
say that something has interfered to prevent signing the shipping
papers.
	I am in hopes that the change of sentiment in England has induced
the Government to take this step.
	Owing to [the] Floridas men being housed on shore one or two scuffles
have taken place with the men of this ship, and although nothing seri-
ous resulted I deemed it necessary to address a communication to
Admiral Gueydon, calling his attention to the probability that if
restrictions were not placed on the Florida men other collisions would
follow of a more fatal character. This he admitted, and acted in
accordance.
	Notwithstanding this, subseqnently two of the junior officers of this
ship have been waylaid and knocked down, the men brandishing knives.
Two of the Floridas men have been identified, and are now on trial for
this offense.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNo. A. WINSLOW,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


[Telegram.]

FORT MONROE, October 13, 1863.
(Received at Washington 5 p. in.)
Siu:	The U. S. ship Onward arrived at Hampton Roads October 12.
	Respectfully,	W. H. CLARK,
	Acting Master, Commanding.
lion. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner,
U.	S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, relative to the vessels
of his command.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, October 13, 1863.
	SIR:	The vessels of your squadron which are most urgently in need
of repairs should be sent immediately to the United States (New Yor

Page 472

472	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

and Boston). Two vessels retained will be sufficient under the exist-
ing condition of things.
Very respectfully,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Acting Rear-Admiral J. L. LARDNER,		Secretary of the Navy.
Commanding West India Squadron, Cape Haitien.


Report of Captain Steliwagen, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Con-
stellation, of rumors regarding the steamer Southerner.

U.	S. SHIP CONSTELLATION,
Spezia, Italy, October 16, 1863.
	SIR: I have returned to this place via Algiers, where I went in con-
sequence of the rumors of the Southerner, spoken of in letter [of] Octo-
ber 1, 1863. I there ascertained from E. L. Kingsbury, U. S. consul,
that she had been there and landed 300 Moorish pilgrims, and then con-
tinued her voyage to England. He had seen her papers; all appeared
right; her cargo, 600 bales of Egyptian cotton. She is about 1,500
tons; very fast.
	I find here there is still a suspicion she is to return to Malta to fit as
a privateer under Captain Jefferson Page, who has lately left Florence,
but that her charter was for six months.
	The authorities at Algiers offered all facilities for coaling, watering,
etc., which, however, I did not require.
	The consul at [Port] Mahon snggests that he thinks the governor
will cheerfully grant storage for a supply of coal, provisions, and stores
if desired, as a subrendezvous for a squadron. I think it would be a
great convenience.
	This ship has been in rough weather and leaks very badly, the pay-
ing and calking having washed out, the former not having rosin enough
to give it firmness. It will have to be done before cruising. The
weather is commencing to be very badstormy and rainy. We have
had to repair planking in several places, and in consequence of repre-
sentations I ordered an examination, and send a copy of report (A)*
herewith.
	I find runiored accounts in the newspapers of the fitting out of a
storeship and three steamers for this, station. I hope it may be true,
as they may be very necessary to the preservation of our commerce
here.
Very respectfully, etc., your obedient servant,
		II.	S. STELLWAGEN,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,		 Captain, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, relative to the vessels of his command.

FLAGSHIP. RHODE ISLAND
St. Thomas, October 19, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of the Rhode Island at
this port on the 15th instant for some repairs to her engine and to look
after the coal vessels for the squadron.

Not necessary to publish

Page 473

OPERATIONS 012 TIlE CRUISERSUNION.	473

	After visiting Guadaloupe I shall return to Cape Haitien by the
first of November.
	Of the other ships of the squadron, the Santiag~ de Cuba is convoy-
ing the California steamers, the Juniata was sent on 1~he 3d instant to
Key West and Havana; orders were left for her to visit Santa Marta
and Cura~ao.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	L. LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge,
of the continued presence of the C. S. S. Florida in the port of Brest,
France.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Brest, Fra ce, October 21, 1863.
	Sin: I have the honor to inform the Department that the Florida
still remains in this port repairing. I have no other means of ascer-
taining the time of her detention than by rumor. The American con-
sular agent, who is on friendly terms with the broker superintending
the work, asserts that a month and a half to two months will elapse
before she is ready.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNo. A. WINSLOW,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, IJ. C.


Report of Commander MeDougal, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Wyoming, regarding the reported movements of C. S. steamers Alabama
and Georgia.
U.	S. STEAM SLOOP WYOMING,
Anjer, Java, October 22, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my arrival at Batavia on the 6th
instant, eleven days from Macao. After filling up with coal I left on
the 10th, since which time I have been in the Strait of Sunda.
	Through our consul at Batavia I learned the arrival of the A labama
and Georgia at Cape of Good Hope on the 5th August. The report
was confirmed on the 19th instant by the English bark Falcon (formerly
the American bark Mary Haxh all, confiscated), which vessel was at the
cape during the time the Alabama was there.
	One of the owners of the Falcon, a Mr. Ladd, an American merchant
from Hongkong, furnished me with Cape Town papers containing
accounts of the operations of the Alabama and Tu~caloos off the port,
al8o the correspondence of our #~onsnl and the authorities in relation to
their admission in English ports and their capture of an American ves-
sel entering the harbor.
	By the Cape Town papers of the 19th August, the Alabama and
Tuscaloosa sailed from Simons Bay on the 15th August on a cruise.
The Georgia still in port refitting

Page 474

474	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	On the 19th the Alabama was reported off Saldanha Bay, since which
time nothing further has been heard of their movemei~ts.
	It is now two months since any reliable informatfrn has been received,
which makes me think that instead of coming east they have returned
north, where they would have a more extended field for their opera-
tions than in these waters, as nearly all of the American vessels in the
China seas have changed flags, otherwise get no employment. While
at Macao three fine American vessels were put under Portuguese colors,
and since leaving that port I have seen but three American vessels, one
at I3atavia and two in the Strait of Sunda, one of which will change
her flag on her arrival at I~angkok. Had either the Alabama or Georgia
have come east, I think ere this we would have heard of their arrival at
some of the intermediate ports between this and the cape.
	The Tuscaloosa was formerly the American bark Conrad, tradi iig
between Montevideo and New York, and captured by the Alabama
June 19th and fitted out as a cruiser, carrying four guns.
	I am happy to state that the health of the officers and crew continues
good.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
D.	MCDOUGAL,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
#~ecretary of the Nary, Washington.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, October 22, 1863.

	Proceed immediately with the Michigan to Sandusky and communi-
nicate with the commanding army officer at Johnsons Island for the
purpose of assisting in guarding the rebel prisoners at that point.
	Answer by telegraph.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Commander JNO. C. CARTER,
Commanding U. S. S. ]Jlichigan, Erie, Pa.


Letter from Commander Baldwin, U. S. Nary, to Sir Philip Wodehouse,
governor of 6~ape Colony, requesting permission to coal and repair ship
in the harbor of Cape Town, Africa.
U.	S. S. VANDERBILT,
Cape Town, October 22, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to make known to your Excellency the arrival
here of this ship.
	I have come to this harbor for the purpose of making some necessary
repairs omi my machinery, and also to get a supply of fuel.
	I therefore ask your Excellencys permission to lie here for the above.
mentioned purpose the imecessary time, say from four to six working
days.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
C.	H. BALDWIN,

His Excellency Sir PHILIP WODEIIOTTsE, Commander, U. S. Navy.
Governor of Cape Colony, etc

Page 475

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	475

Letter from the colonial secretary at Cape Colony to Commander Bald-
win, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Vanderbilt, replying to a request
for permission to coat and repair ship in the harbor~of Cape Town.

COLONIAL OFFICE, October 23, 1863.
	SIR: I am directed by the governor to acquaint you that he has
given his best consideration to the letter which he had the honor of
receiving from you yesterday, as well as to the verbal representations
you made to him relative to the issue of coals to American vessels of
war by the special permission of the governors of other British colo-
nies, as an exception to the general directions of the British Govern-
ment on the subject. Looking to the stringent nature of the instruc-
tions he has received, the governor entertains some doubt whether
the authority to grant special permission be really vested in himself,
but he considers that there are special circumstances affecting the case
of the ship under your command sufficient in themselves to guide him
in dealing with your application.
	It has been the unvarying [custom] of her Majestys Government to
abstain as far as practicable from affording to either of the parties
engaged in the American civil war assistance in the prosecution of
hostilities toward each other; and accordingly, in regulating the issue
of coals at British ports to their ships of war, the object has been
manifestly to restrict those issues to the supplies needed for carrying
them to some defined destination in foreign ports, or from some foreign
port to their own country, and not to facilitate their cruising for an
indefinite perio~l for purposes of the war. Applying this principle to the
case of the Vanderbilt, the governor finds that on her way from South
America to the cape she coaled at the British colony of St. Helena;
that shortly after she coaled again at Simons Bay, and that after
remaining in the neighborhood of our ports for a time she proceeded to
Mauritius, where she coaled again and then returned to this colony.
	It is also matter of notoriety that the object of her movements has
been to intercept the Confederate cruisers which have lately visited
our shores.
	Under these circumstances, with the information now before him,
the governor believes that he would be acting in opposition to the
spirit of her Majestys instructions if he were to grant special permis-
sion for the issue of coals within the limited term of three months.
	His Excellency has no objection to offer to your remaining in port
for the time required for the completion of indispensable repairs.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
RAWSON W. I~AWSON,
Colonial Secretary.
Commander BALDWIN,
U.	S. S. Vanderbilt, Table Bay.



Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Ilonekendorif, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. S. Powhatan, to proceed to the West Indies
for duty on that station.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, October 26, 1863.
	SIR:	As soon as the U. S. S. Powhatan is ready for sea proceed with
her to the West Indies and report to Acting Rear-Admiral James L

Page 476

476	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.

Lardner for duty in the squadron under his command, of which the
Powhatan is to be the flagship.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Commander Wiw. RONCKENDORFF,
Commanding U. S. S. Powhatan, Philadelphia.



Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commandinq U. S. S. ]Ifohican, of
the arrival of that vessel at Bahia, Brazil, from cruise in the vicinity
of the equator.

U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Bahia, October 28, 1863,
	SIR:	I have to report to the honorable Secretary of the Navy the
arrival of the U. S. S. Mohi can at this port from a cruise near the equa-
tor without seeing anything of the 1)iratical vessels. The French mail
steamer is just in from Rio, and brings the enclosed letters from our
consuls at Rio and the Cape of Good Hope. It is now blowing a gale
of wind, and the inonient it moderates so that I can take in coal and
~iOV~5~O~5 I shall be oft in ch se. The English mail steamer will be in
from the Cape Verde [Islands I to-morrow, and it is probable I shall
get some ~her information of their movements, as it was supposed at
the cape that the Alabama wonl(l go north. I parted company with
Captain Baldwin on the 30th July at Rio, the V nderbilt to visit the
Cape of Good Hope and the Mohican to cruise from Cape Frio to the
vicinity of the equator. The Vanderbilt being very swift, I yet hope
she will capture the Alabama. My movements will be governed by the
news by the English ~iail, and I shall not lose one moment in par-
~uiug these piratical vessels. We are all well on board.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	0.	5. GLISSON,
		Captain, U. S. Navy.

Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, 3Yashington, D. C.
[Enclosures.]


CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Bahia, October 27, 1863.
	SIR:	Enclosed please find copies of letters which I reccive(l this morn-
ing from the Hon. James Monroe, U. S. consul at Rio (le Janeiro, which
I showed to you a few minutes after their arrival.
I have the honor to be, most respectfully, your obedient servant,
THOMAS F. WILSON,
U.	S. Consul.
Captain 0. 5. GLISSON,
Commanding U. S. Sloop of War ]Jiliohican

Page 477

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS-UNION.	477
		U. S. CONSULATE,
Bio de Janeiro, October 17) 1863.
	SIR: I am instructed by General Webb to forward4o you the enclose(I
copy of a letter from Consul Graham, and to request you to deliver it
to the commander of the first United States vessel of war that shall
enter your port.
With great respect, yours, very truly,
JAMES MONROE,
U.	S. Consul.
Hon. THOMAS F. WILSON,
U.	S. Consul.
		U. S. CONSULATE,
Cape Town, September 18, 1863.
	DEAR SIR: The Vanderbilt left here on the 11th instant and the Ala-
bama returned from Angra Pequefia (where she sold her two prizes) on
the 16th. The Vanderbilt has gone east to catch the Georgia, and the
Alabama may go north to escape before she can return. If the lYfohican
or Niagara are in your port please hurry them along, as the Alabama
will sail in about three days.
Please keep me informed of all movements, arid I will reciprocate.
	Yours, truly,	WALTER GRAHAM,
	U. S. Consul.
	[General W~EBB.



Report of Acting Master Pennell, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. bark
Ethan Allen, of the cruise of that vessel for the protection of American
fishing interests.
U.	S. BARK ETIIAN ALLEN,
Off Navy Yard, Boston, October 28, 1863.
	SIR: In obedience to your orders under date of August 27, 1863, I
proceeded to sea September 2, leaving the navy yard at 11 a. in., and
at 7:30 p. in. came to anchor off Gloucester, Mass., to procure a pilot
for the Gut of Causo and Bay [Gulf] of St. Lawrence.
	3d instant [September].At 1:45 p.. in., having received on board
Albert P. Grove (coast pilot), proceeded to sea.
	5th instant .At 9:30 a. m. spoke American schooner Ada S. Winswell,
of Bangor, for Providence, 11. I.
	6th instant.At 10:30 a. m. spoke American schooner Northern
Chief, from the Gulf of St. Lawrence for Provincetown. At 10:30 p. in.
boarded American schooner Allegro, twenty.one days from iliughain,
on a fishing cruise.
	7th instant.Was boarded by American fishing schooners Highfiyer
and George Shotten.
	9th instant.At 11:15 a. m. boarded American ship Kentuckian, five
hours from St. George for Liverpool. At 8:45 p. m. anchored off East-
port, Me., and, as before mentioned in a special report, in rounding to
(there being a light wind and strong current at the tiiue) we came in
collision with the British ship Mount Royal, doing her but slight dam-
age. Was detained in Eastport twelve days by a continuation of light
southerly winds and thick fogs.
	21st instant.At 8:30 a. in. proceeded to sea

Page 478

478	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	26th instant.At 6:30 a. m. parted footrope of maintopsail, and the
wind, being fresh, blew it to pieces before it could be secured. At 5:50
p. m. entered the Straits [Gut] of Canso, and ak 7:45 p. in. anchored off
Port Muigrave, Nova Scotia. Was detained there three days by head
winds.
	29th instant.At 9:30 a. m. made sail and proceeded through the Gut
of Canso.
	30th instant.Anchored off Port Hood, Cape Breton.
	October 3.Proceeded to sea at 9 a. in., and at 5 p. in. anchored off
Georgetown, Prince Edward Island, finding there the U. S. schooner
George Mangham, just arrived off a cruise.
	6th instant.At 4:30 p. in. received a visit from the vice-consul, Mr.
McDonald.
	8th instant.At 9: 15 a. m. proceeded to sea. At 10:30 a. in., in beat-
ing out of the harbor, carried away the main topgallant yard.
	9th ttFh breeze from northward and eastward. At 9 a. m.
anchored off Charlotte Town, Prince Edward Island. At 1:30 p. in.
U. S. schooner George Miangham arrived. At 4 p. m. received a visit
froiu our consul, Mr. Sherman.
	10th instant.At 10 a. in., by invitation, called on the lieutenant-
governor of the island in company with the consul. At 5:45 p. m.
proceeded to sea.
	11th instant.At 8: 30 a. in., strong easterly wind. Put into the bay
of Bedeque, off Summerside, Prince Edward Island. Was detained
there five days by a stress of weather.
	16th instant.At 10:15 a. in. received a visit froin the vice-consul,
Mr. Pope.. At 11 a. in. proceeded to sea.
	18th instant.At 9 a. in. touched off Caseumpeque (Port Holland);
heavy surf running at the time; did not land. At 5:45 p. m. anchored
off Malpeque (Richmond Bay). Went on shore and had an interview
with Mr. Rodgers, who informed me that but very few of our fishing
vessels had touched there this season.
	19th instant.At 6:45 a. in. proceeded to sea.
	20th instant.At 3 p. in. anchored off Old harrys Point (Magdalen
Islands). Communicated with the inhabitants on shore and ascer-
tained that no fishing vessels had been there for several days.
	21st instantAt 6 a. m. proceeded to sea.
	224 instant.At 9 a. in. anchored off North Sydney, Cape Breton.
Here we found a large fleet of our fishermen using this harbor for a
rendezvous in bad weather. At 3:30 p. in. received a visit from the
vlce-consnl Mr. Archibald.
3
	~5th instant.At 7:30 a. in. proceeded to sea.
	28th instant.At 10:30 a. nui. came to anchor off navy yard, Boston.
	I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
I. A. PENNELL,
U.	S. Navy, Acting Master, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
iS~ecretary o~ the Navy.


Letter from Commander Carter, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Michi-
gan, requesting instructions from the Department.

U.	S. S. MICHIGAN,
Johnsons Island, Ohio, October 28, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of this ship at this place
on the 24th instant, in obedience to your telegraphic order of the 22d

Page 479

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	479

I respectfully request that the Department will instruct me if I shall
or not exercise lily judgment and discretion as to the time of remain-
iiig at this point. The duty of recruiting must ne~ssarily be delayed.
The winter [is] close at hand, and the necessity of the ships stay here
seems already to have ceased.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	C. CARTER,

Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Gomvmnder Preble, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship St.
Louis, of information received regarding the C. S. steamers Georgia
and Florida.
U.	S. SLOOP OF WAR ST. LOUIS,
Lisbon, October 29, 1863.
	SIR:	I have this moment received information from the master of the
British steamer Braganza, arrived yesterday, that he was boarded on
Sunday, the 24th, by the master of the steamer Georgia (whom he
knew) when about 1~5O miles from here, and that when they parted the
rebel steamer steered off~ to the northward and eastward for the British
Channel. This tallies with the report of another captain, that he saw,
about ten days since, an iron steamer under the Confederate flag coal-
ing at Teneriffe.
	I received a letter yesterday from the executive officer of the Kear-
sarge, in which he states that the machinery of the Florida has to be
repaired in Paris and that she can not get away from Brest under two
months. The captain of the Braganza says he saw the Floridas crew
at Liverpool.
	The repairs and work uion the St. Louis are about completed, and if
the weather will permit I shall sail without delay for Cadiz to obtain
the necessary provisions, smaJi stores, and clothing, all of which we
are in need, and I have notice of the arrival of two storeships at that
port.
As	yet I have no communications from the Department.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEO. HENRY PREBLE,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Report of Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge,
of information received regarding the C. S. S. Georgia.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE,
Brest, France, October 30, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report to the Department that I last even-
ing received a telegram from Mr. Harvey, our minister at Lisbon,
informing me that the steamer Braganza, from Liverpool, had been
boarded by the pixate Georgia, 150 miles off

Page 480

480	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	The Georgia had beeti depredating on our commerce about Teneriffe,
and at that time was proceeding to the British Channel. As I felt
assured from information that the Florida woukl not be ready for ten
days or two weeks, I would have sailed immediately, in hopes by good
fortune of intercepting the new freebooter, but a heavy gale of wind
blowing, which has not yet abated, prevented.
	I am in hopes that the gale will subside during the night and I shall
be able to get to sea at early dawn.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNO. A. WINSLOW,
Captain.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
&#38; cretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Capture of the British bark A~axon.

Report of Commander Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Vanderbilt, of the cruise of
that vessel and the capture of the British bark Saxon.

U.	S. S. VANDERBILT,
Angra Peque~ia, Coast of Africa, October 30, 1863.
	SIR: I last had this honor 5th October. I sailed from Mauritius
on the 10th of October and went a short distance to the northw rd
and eastward, thence over to the Isle of Bourbon, where I commu-
nicated wfth the shore, but learned nothing. I continued on to Algoa
Bay, where I communicated with our commercial agent. He informed
me of the arrival on the 16th of September of the Alabama at Simons
Bay, only five days after I had left.
	1 continued on to the westward, and ou the night of the 21st Octo-
ber communicated with the shore at Simons Bay; found there was no
coal to be had there, so xvent around to Table Bay and anchored there
on the morning of the 22d October.
	I waited on the governor and requested time to make a few repairs
and take in coal. His Excellency took a day to decide and themi
refused to permit me to take in any coal. I enclose copies* of the
correspondence.
	I got the information at Cape Town that some 200 tons of coal had
been sent here for the Alabama sonic two months since, but that she
would not wait for it, but went to Simons Bay herself, and also that
the Tuscaloosa (the American bark Conrad, captured by the Alabama
and now cruising as a privateer) had discharged her cargo of wool
and goatskins at this place; that a vessel had been sent to take it on
board, and as I could not get any coal I got off from Cape Town as
soon as possible and arrived here yesterday afternoon.
	I found the British bark Saxon here, just about to get underway, and
on examination found her to be laden with wool aiid goatskins, about
160 bales, being undoubtedly part of the cargo of the Conrad.
	Among the papers I find a charter party for her to come here to load
with guano, but the captain tells me that while at Ascension he received
the charter party and a letter without signature directing him to come
here and load with such cargo as he should find.
	I put a prize crew on board, and had hardly done so when a bark
came around the point from sea, and immediately on seeing this ship

See pp. 474, 475

Page 481

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	481

she stood off again, and though I fired twice she showed no colors, so
immediately I could get my anchor I got underway and stood after her.
	It was blowing quite fresh at the time, and night coming on, but by
8:30 oclock caine up with her and found her to be the British bark Good
Hope, iu ballast. He reported he was stopping at the various ports
to load guano. She belongs to the same parties xvho are the charterers
to the Saxon, and I was informed at Cape Town that she was hurried
off immediately on our arrival there to give warning to the Saxon, and
also to take on board the coal belonging to the Alabama.
	I got back to the anchorage this a. in., and was sorry to learn that
Acting Masters Mate Charles Danenhower, of our prize crew, had
acci(lental]y shot the chief officer of the Saxon, killing him instantly. I
enclose the report on the subject of Acting Master Keith, the officer in
cli arge.
	The coal above referred to is here on Penguin Island, and I shall take
it on board for the use of this ship, although I shall have some difficulty
in getting this large vessel near the place of deposit, as the S. E. winds
here at this season of the year blow half a gale.
	I send the Saxon to New York ill charge of Acting Master [Ensign]
Keyser, giving him for watch officers Acting Masters [Mates] Henry
Wyman and James D. Cornell, the latter of whom has been serving in
this ship as quarter gunner. I have given him an acting appointment,
subject to the approval of the Navy Department. He has been an
officer in the merchant service and is in every way worthy.
	As soon as I get the coal on board I shall go, in the absence of any
information, to Loanda for coal, thence in the tiack, as much as pos-
sible, of sailing vessels to the West Indies and home.
	The crack in our shaft has not ~increascd in size, though when in
motion shows signs of springing by the oil oozimmg out.
	I would most respectfully call the attention of tIme l)epartinent to the
importance of having at least one steamer in this imeighborhood, but
not [of] such large size as this, as there are many anchorages and harbors
between Loango and Cape Colony subject to no jurisdiction, and where,
as has been the case of the Conrad and Sea Bride, cargoes could be
landed and sold.
	Also, if it should be deemed necessary, an armed coal ship might be
kept here, and supplied, as occasion required, by shipments from the
Cape of Good Hope, where there is always a large supply of coal, and
usually at moderate prices.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
C. H. BALDWIN,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
[Enclosure.]

BARK SAXON,
Angra Pequefia, October 31, 1863.
	Sn~: Pursuant to your order of the 30th instant, I took charge of
this vessel, got underway, and proceeded to this anchorage. On my
gaining the deck of this vessel, I was informed that a boats crew of five
had been on shore and returned with their number immereased to seven. I
was informed by the captain that this boats crew belonged on shore at
Halifax Island, which was about 7 miles distant, and wished to know if
they could go on shore, to which I inspected the men and answered in the
affirmative. He then asked if the men could take provisions with them
	N W UVOL II	3

Page 482

482	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

for the night, which I granted. In a few minutes I was informed that
the boats crew were preparing provisions in large quantities. I saw
the provisions (which were contained in sacks) aNI gave an oider pro-
hibiting them to be slipped. The captain then came to me and asked
if the men could not take the provisions they had prepaie(l. I told him
no. He then said there was none too many, and they ought to have
them. I told him I was the judge in that matter, and such large quan-
tities of provisions could not leave the vessel. He said emphatically
that it should go, and started forward toward the men, who were amid-
ships, with the provisions. I ordered him to come aft. He showed no
disposition to obey. I then followed him up, put my hand on his shoul-
der, and ordered him aft a second time, wheii he stoppe(I tbr a short
time, when I ordered hini to his cabin and told huin if lie again inani-
fested such a disposition of contempt I would put him where the dogs
would not bite him. He then went to the cabin, where I fWiowed him
and saw him below. While I was following the captain to time cabin it
appears that a man (who afterwards proved to be chief officer) was fol-
lowing after me, which Mr. Danenhower discovered and stepped in
before him and ordered him forward. He did not obey, but rushed past
Mr. Danenhower. As I left the captain I saw Mr. Danenhower, with
drawn pistol, holding the man with his left hand and pistol slightly
elevated. I went toward the scene, and arrived as the pistol was dis-
charged, which caused instant death to the man, who was chief mate of
this vessel. Mr. iDanenhower tells me it was accidental as he was not
aware that the pistol was cocked. I think from the appearance of Mr.
Danenhower when I saw him, before the discharge, that it was purely
an accident, yet he might have been justified were it intentional. I
have placed the corpse below and await your orders in regard to its
disposal. There is no lumber on board this vessel, or I should have had
a coffin made before this. The cargo consists of wool and goatskins.
The log book has been neglected and does not give a 6orrect account
of articles taken on board at this place. I have ascertained the num-
ber of bales to be as great as 156. The men inform me that they learn
from the crew that a number of boxes have been taken on board. If
so, they must be stowed under the bales, as nothing can be seen of them
from the fore or main hatchway. I can discover nothing of arms, etc.
Your obedient servant,
	A. N. KEITH,
	Commander BALDWIN.	Acting Master, U. S. Navy.

	P. S.I think there must be more wool on shore, but from what light
can be gained on board there seems to be none. There are 14 men on
board, all told, of the barks crew, and a spare suit.of sails, 2 barrels
pork, 3 of beef; 3 bags of bread.
A.	N. KEITH,
Acting Master, U. iS. Navy.

Statement of the master of the bark Saxon regarding the capture of that vessel by the
U. S. S. Vanderbilt, Commander Baldwin, U. S. Navy.

	I sailed from Ascension on the 26th September, and arrived at Angra
Pequefia [west coast Africa] on the 16th October.
	On the 27th I commenced taking in cargoskins and wool. On Octo-
ber 30, at 11 a. in., we finished loading. The carpenter then commenced
to batten down the hatches, the men being employed in clearing decks
and securing spars and getting ready for sea

Page 483

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSLTNION.	483

	About 1 p. m. we saw a steamer rounding Angra Point, which proved
to be the Federal mau-of-war Vanderbilt. She came to an anchor
abreast of Penguin Island, lowered a boat, and ~eut it ou board the
8axon, with two officers and a boats crew, all armed. At 1:30 p. m. she
boarded us, and the officer asked where I was from; I told him from
Ascension. He then asked how long I had been at Angra Pequefia,
and I told him. He also asked what my cargo consisted of, aud I told
him.
	He then questioned me to show my papers. I asked what authority
he had to look at my papers. He said Captain Baldwin had sent him
to look at the ships papers, and added: It is of no use, Captain; I
must see your papers. I then showed him the ships papers. He read
them and said,  Skins and wool; that will do, and went on deck,
taking the papers with him.
	He looked down the hold, and asked me if I knew where the skins
and wool came from. I told him that all I knew about it was that I
had come there to take it in. He then told me he must take my papers
to Captain Baldwin, and would leave an officer on board to make a sig-
nal in case I should attempt to move the ship. I told him I was ready
for sea, and would go papers or no papers, and take with me the officer
he might leave.
	He then said I had better try it, as the steamer would go faster than
we could. He then left the ship, leaving a junior officer on board. At
the same time that the officer left my ship a second boat, with another
officer and crew, all armed, put oft from the steamer. They came on
board about 2:30 p. m. and took charge, placing armed men all round
the ship anddriving my crew below.
	The officer never reported to me that he had come to take charge
until I went to him and asked him what he had come to do. His answer
was, Who are you, sir ~ I told him that I was the master of the ship.
He replied: You are now no more master of this vessel, and I will
thank you to go below and give no more orders, sir; further, I will not
allow you to speak to any of the ships company. I told him he might
as well have behaved as a gentleman, and have come to me and told me
what his business was, instead of taking charge without acquainting
me of his intention, and before Captain Baldwin had seen my papers.
He then ordered me below.
	About 4 p. in. the island men that were helping to load the ship came
alongside in a boat with some fish, and asked for some meat and bread,
as they had had nothing to eat since breakfast. I told my chief officer
he might give them some, but that he must first ask the officer in charge
of the ship. He (lid so, and the officer in the first instance said they
might have some, but afterwards changed his mind, and with impious
imprecations said they shonld not have a bit. I then said to the officer:
Let us go forward and give them some. He said: No; you shall not
go forward, and they shall not have anything from this ship. I then
said, They shall have something to eat, and was going forward when
the officer ordered his men to stop me and take me below, which they
did, the officer at the same time saying: My tine fellow, if you do not
go below I will very soon put you where the dogs wont bark at you.
I had been below about nine or ten minutes, with a sentry over me, when
I heard the report of a pistol. I instantly rushed on deck, and was told
they had shot the mate. I went to support the mate in my arms. He
never moved or spoke. He was shot dead. I said to the officer in
charge: Why have you shot my mate? His reply was: It was an
a~h1ent. I then a~ked the junior officer who shot the mate and wh

Page 484

484	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNiON.

he did it. He said: Poor fellow, I am sorry for bun, but I must obey
orders. They then hove up the anchor and dropped the Saxon abreast
of Penguin island.
	The Vanderbilt at this time was in chase of another vessel that hove
in sight. She returned next morning. Captain Bal(lwiu sent for me
on board the Vanderbilt. Upon my going on board, Captain Bald-
win addressed me thus: You are Captain Sheppard, of the bark
Saxon? Yes, sir, I replied. Well, captain, he continued, I am
very sorry for you, but your papers are not satisfactory to me, and
I must make a prize of the Saxon and send her to the prize authori-
ties at New York. We know that it is the Tuscaloosas cargo that you
have on board. It was brought here by the Confederates, and it is
American property. That is the ground upon which I make a prize of
your ship. I must do my duty to my country aiid protect Americau
property.
	The Vanderbilt steamed into Penguin Island when I was on board of
her, and commenced taking in coals that were on shore there. I told
Captain Baldwin the island was British territory. He replied, I can
not help it; I want coal, and must have it. Captain BaNwin had
a coffin made for Mr. Gray, the chief officer, and he was buried on
the mainland on the 30th October, by the Vanderbilts men. They
would not allow any of the ships company, except myself, to follow
him. On the 1st November they lauded me and my crew on the
mainland~ with a little bread and water, not sufficient for one day, and
our personal effects.
	We walked the coast to the shore opposite Halifax Island, to which
we crossed Th a boat. We arrived in the evening. On November 3
the schooner Isabel, of Cape Town, Captain Roe, caine in aiid took us
on board. We proceeded to Ichaboe and then to Hottentot Bay, where
we arrived on 10th November. Oii November 13 we ~veiitou board the
Lord of the Isles, bound to Table Bay, where we arrived on 21st
November.
[STEPHEN SHEPPARD,
Master Steamer Saxon.]


Affidavit of the second mate of the bark Saxon regarding the capture of that vessel by the
U. S. S. Vanderbilt, Commander Baldwin, U. S. navy.

BRITISH CONSULATE, New York.

	David Aitchison, a native of Dundee, Scotland, mariner, of the age
of 29 years, at present at New York, maketh oath, and saith as follows:
	On the 23d of August last I shipped at Cape Town on board the bark
Saxon, of Cape Town, Stephen Sheppard, roaster, for a voyage to
Ascension [Island], Angra Pequcila, and Falmouth, for orders. I
shipped as second mate; the mates name was James Gray, a native of
Aberdeen, Scot land.. We sailed from Cape Town early in September,
I do not remember the day, and proceeded to Ascension. We carried
cattle and forage, being partly in ballast. We landed the cattle at
Ascension, where we remained seven (lays, an(l then proceeded to
Angra Pequefia, on the west coast of Africa, where we arrived about
the middle of October. About the 23d of October we begami to take in
cargo. We were delayed in loading, owing to the absence of toe agent,
Captain Boyce, who had gone (lowli to leeward. We laded 156 bales
of wool and hides; 30 of the bales were hides. We were five days iu
lpading. The wool and hides were lying on the shore and were brough

Page 485

OPERATIONS OP TUE CRtJISERStYNION.	485

off in a large, fiat-bottomed boat. On the day that the loading of the
Saxon was completed the U. S. S. Vanderbilt arrived at Angra Pequefia
and anchored about a mile or a mile and a half ~rom ns. She sent a
boat with two officers and a (TCW on board of the Saxon. One of the
officers was named Donohoc [Danenhoweri; lie was an acting masters
mate. The officer in charge of the boarding l)arty had sonic conversa-
tion with Captain Sheppard, and had the afterhatch taken (Itt and
looked at the cargo. lie demanded the ships papers, which were
haiided to him by Captain Sheppard, who asked to have them back, as
he was loaded and ready for sea. The officer refused to return them
and said he would take them on board the Vanderbilt. The officer
themi returned with the boats crew to the Vanderbilt, taking time l)apers
and leaving on board the Saxon the officem Donohoc [Danenimoweri,
above mentioned, in charge of the Saxon. We then went to dinner itt
the eabimi of the Saxonthat is, Captain Sheppard, the mate, James
Gray, the officer Donohoe [Danenhower], and myself l)oimolmoe [Dan-
enhower] well knew Gray to be the mate of the bark. Late iii the
afternoon three boats crews from time Vanderbilt caine on board of us,
being in all about 50 inei, all armed. The men all had a glass of grog
on board the Saxon, being wet on coming on board. The officer in
charge of the whole party wa~s a Lieutenant Keef~ ~Actimmg Master A.
M.	Keith]; he said his orders were to get the hark nndeiway and
bring her down the lagoon.
	Ii y this time the Vanderbilt sighted a bark outside amid proceeded to
sea after her. The Sa on was then got un(ierway, aim(l proceeded a
short way dpwn the lagoon and then anchored agaiim. Captain Simep-
par(l asked Mr. Keefe [Keith] for permission to send on shore some salt
beet; pork, and bread for six men, who had been assisting in loading
time Saxon, until a 5up~)ly should come for theum from Cape Town.
Lieutenant Keefe [Keith] granted permission, and a signal b big made
for the six men they came oft in their boat. They were men who car-
ried omi the business of digging guano and sealimig, amid had been for
eight months and upwar(l at that and other neighboring places on time
coast, under charge of Captain Boyce. When the men caine on board
they ~vent to get their provisions out of the cask, under the superin-
ten(leiice of the master and mate of the Saxon. There was some little
confusion, and Lieutenant Keefe [Keith] told Captain Sheppard that
tIme men had got enough provisions, and ordered Captain Sheppard and
the innate, Gray, to go into the cabin.. Mr. Keefe [Keith] amid time cap-
taimi proceeded aft together and went up the steps of the poop, the
mate following close after them. The captaiii went down the compan-
ion way into the cabin, arid as the mate went up the steps of the poop,
and was going aft toward the companion way, the officer, l)onohoe
[l)anenhower], above mentioned, who was stationed at the break of the
poop, called him back and took hold of him, trying to stop him. A
stout man belonging to the Vanderbilt, who stood behind I)onohoe
[Danemihower] pushed the mate forward at time same time that Donohoe
[Dammenhower] also took hold of time mate to Ilush him forward. The
mate being thus pushed was falling forward down the poop steps,whern
Donohoe [Danenhower] tired at limit with a revolver and shot him, the
ball enterimig time mates head below time right ear. The mate fell on
the deck apparently dead. I was standing imear tIme mainmast at the
time of the occurrence and saw all that passed. I was about 6 or 8
yards distant. 0mm secimig Gray fall I immediately wemit to him and
lifted up his head. He never spoke, and must have beemi dead withi

Page 486

486	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

half a minute after falling. As I took the mates head on my knee, I
heard iDoiiohoe [iDanenhower] say, We must ~bey orders, or He
must obey orders, I am not sure which. About a minute afterwards
he adued,  Well, it is an accident; my revolver was cocked. On hear-
ing the report of the revolver Captain Sheppard came running out of
the cabin and saw Gray lying on the deck, and said to me, Is Gray
dead l I replied, Yes, sir. lie said, Poor Gray; he has been with
me for six years. Lieutenant Keefe [Keith], who was standing on the
poop, called out, Is that man dead l Several of us replied, Yes.
Be said, Then put him down the afterhold and put the hatches on.
The body was pnt down there accordingly. When Mr. Donohoe [Dan-
enhower] stopped the mate the mate said he belonged aft, and he
wanted to go to his cabin. When the revolver was fired all the men of
the Vanderbilt who were on board drew their cutlasses, which frightened
the six men who had come from the shore, and they thereupon rushed
over the vessels side into their boat and went ashore.
	The whole of the men from the Vanderbilt remained on board the
Saxon all night and nntil the afternoon of the next day, when the Van-
derbilt returned from sea. We had our flag half-mast. A boat was
sent from the Saxon on board the Vanderbilt to tell them of the mates
having been shot. On the same evening the coi-pse was buried on the
shore. That night the prize crew came on board, consisting of a Cap-
tain Keyser and 15 hands, and the next day the Saxon was got under-
way and proceeded to New York. Captain Sheppard and 10 of the crew
were landed at Angra Pequefia. Myself and the cook, William John-
son, a colored man, were brought on to New York. I assisted in work-
ing the bark over, under the orders of the prize master. I had charge
of a watch. We arrived at New York on the 22d ultimo. I was
detained one day on board of the gnardship and for two days in the
house of detention, and gave my evidence before the prize commission-
ers. I told them about the shooting of the mate, but they did not take
my evidence on that point.
DAVID AITCHIsON.

	Sworn by the said iDavid Aitchison, at the British consulate, New
York, this 4th day of January, A. D. 1804, before me.
E.	M. ARCHIBALD,

Her Britannic Majestys Consul.


Letter from Sir P. E. Wodehouse to the Duke of Newcastle, on the subject of the captured
Pritish bark Saxon.

GOVERNMENT IIOUSE~
Cape Town, December 18, 1863.
	Mv LORD DUKE: By my dispatch of the 20th ultimo I reported
to yonr Grace that news had been received here of certain acts said
to have been done by the U. S. war steamer Vanderbilt on the coast to the
northward of this colony, of which, at the time, I was unable to fur-
nish any particulars; but I believe I am now mu a position to transmit
such information as will enable her Majestys Goverment to determine
what course it will be expedient for them to pursue.
	It will be seen that the Vanderbilt, on her arrival at Angra Pequefia,
a small bay on the west coast of Africa, beyond the limits of thi

Page 487

487
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
colony, found lying at anchor a vessel named the Saxon, the property
of a mercantile firm in Cape Town, of which she immediately took pos-
session, on the plea that she was laden with the ca~o of the Tuscaloosa,
a Federal merchant ship which has been taken by the Alabama and
converted into a privateer; that the Vanderbilt then proceeded to take
possession of a (jualitity of coals belonging to the owners of the Saxon,
which had been deposited on Penguin Island, a small island in the bay
of Arigra Pequehia; that she has sent the Saxon with her cargo in charge
of a prize crew for the adjudication of a court of competent jurisdiction
in the United States, and that before the departure of the Saxon her
chief officer was shot by one of the officers of the Vanderbilt.
	There are, therefore, three separate transactions on which it becomes
necessary for me to furnish information, viz, the seizure of the ship,
the appropriation of the coals, and the death of the mate.
	An impression generally prevailed there that Penguin Island, near
which the Saxon was anchored, was British territory, and that conse-
quently the seizure of that vessel in such a locality was a direct
infringement of British rights; but upon enquiry I have discovered
that such is not the case. On the 13th April, 1861, your Grace com-
municated to my predecessor that her Majestys Government had
decided on the annexation to the Cape Colony of the Island of Ichaboc,
which was duly carried out. Subsequently, some merchants of this
town interested in the guano trade brought under the notice of Sir
George Grey the case of certain small islands adjacent to Ichaboe, and
the result was that on the 12th of August, 1861, he published a proc-
lamation for bringing under the dominion of her Majesty Penguin
island andten others, subject to her Majestys gracious confirmation
and disallowance. Immediately after this had been done Sir George
Grey sailed for New Zealand, and there is no record of the proclama-
tion having been reported to your Grace, or of the annexation having
been confirmed by her Majesty. Upomi the score of territorial rights,
therefore, as arising out of the vicinity of this island, I conceive no
objection can be taken to the acts of the Vanderbilt. In other respects
the capture of the Saxon may fairly be left to the adjudication of a
court of law. One of the owners of the ship has admitted to me with-
out reserve that the cargo on board at the time of the seizure was a
part of that landed from the Tuscaloosa, and was intended to be con-
veyed to a market as the property of, and on account of; Captain
Semmes, of the Alabama.
	The same gentleman informed me he had been in communication
with the U. S. consul respecting the appropriation of the coals, and he
had little doubt that officer would obtain the authority of his Govern-
ment to pay for them. The consul has since expressed himself to the
same effect to me.
	The death of the mate of the Saxon involves considerations of a far
more serious nature. The depositions taken by the acting attorney-
general go to show that when the crew of the Saxon were entirely
without arms, and apparently without either the means or the wish to
offer any resistance to their captors, this unfortunate man was, on little
or no provocation, shot dead by one of the officers in command.
Whether the act was the result of wanton ferocity, or whether it was
perpetrated under the influence of unfounded apprehension, it seems
hard to say. But it is very satisfactory to find, from the evidence of
the master of the Saxon, that the captain of the Vanderbilt was much
displeased at what had occurred, and had at once placed the office

Page 488

488	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS-UNION.

under arrest. I can not but hope that under such circumstances the
Government of the United States will be prepared cheerfully to grant
such reparation as her Majestys Government ina~ consider the case to
require, and I beg to recommend to your Graces most favorable con-
sideration an applicatiou which has been made to inc by Messrs. W.
Sampson &#38; Son, as the agents of the widow of the deceased James
Gray.
I have, etc.,
P.	E. WODEHOUSE.



Report of Commander Preble, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship St.
Louis, of action favorable to the United States taken by the Moorish
authorities.
U.	S. SLOOP OF WAR ST. Louis,
Lisbon, October 31, 1863.
	SIR:	I am in receipt of a letter from our consul at Tangier, of which
the following is an extract:
	I have very favorable reports of your visits to Safi and Mogador, and was extremely
sorry that you were unable to land at the latter place. The vice-consul had made
every preparation to give you a hearty welcome. Your visits on our coast have had
a salutary influence. After laboring four months with Ehe Moorish authorities, I
finally succeeded in getting the Sultan, on the 24th September, to issue his royal
order forbidding vessels sailing under the rebel flag from visiting his ports on pain
of seizure.
	The bashaw~ of his ports have orders to seize them and deliver them and their
crews to me, and, if necessary to capture, to open fire on them from the royal bat-
teries. This is a complete triumph for me over British influence.

	As the visits of the St. Louis to Tangier, Safi, and Mogador were in
the month of August, it is reasonable to suppose that her salutes and
appearance assisted to the success of these negotiations.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEO. HENRY PREBLE,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Carter, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Michigan, to remain at Sandusky, Ohio, for the
winter.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, October 31, 1863.
	SIR:	You are informed, in answer to your letter of the 28th instant,
that it is the desire of the War Department that the Michigan should
remain at Sandusky, for the better protection against outbreak or
escape of the rebel prisoners on Johnsons Island, during the approach-
ing winter.
~Tery respectfully, etc.,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commander J. ~. CARTER,	Secretary of the Navy,
Gommanding U. S. ~3. Michigan, Sandusky, Oltio

Page 489

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	489

Letter from the examining officer, Qacenstown, Ireland, to Captain Wins-
low, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge~regarding the twenty-
four-hour limit.
QUEENSTOWN, November 3, 1863.
	SIR:	I hereby give you notice that under her Majestys proclamation
of neutrality yoa are not permitted to remain in a British port for a
longer period than twenty-four hours, except stress of weather or other
unavoidable accident.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
B. BANKS,
Examining Officer.
Captain WINSLOW,
U.	S. S. Kearsarge.


Letter from the U. S. consul at Gibraltar to the Secretary of the Navy,
reporting depredations committed by the C. S. S. Georgia.

CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Gibraltar, November 3, 1863.
	SIR:	The master of the British schooner Emily Wylde arrived at
this port in forty-seven days passage from New Castle, reports that
about a fortnight since, in latitude 42~ 14 N. and longitude 110 10 W.,
he was boarded by the rebel steamer Georgia, and that he supplied her
with newspajers. He further states that the Georgia was overhauling
every vessel in sight, and that this occurred off Cape Finisterre.
	I yesterday communicated this information by telegraph to our min-
ister at London for transmission to you and also to our minister at Lis-
bon and consuls at Brest and Cadiz, for the guidance of any of oar
naval commanders who might touch or be at those ports.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
HORATIO J. SPRAGUE,
U.	S. Consul.
Hon. SECRETARY OF THE NAVY,
Washington tJity, D. C.



Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral Lard-
ncr, U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, calling attentiqn
to the snspected steamer City of Petersburg.

~AYY DEPARTMENT, November 4, 1863.
	SIR:	Transmitted in the mail of yesterday were extracts from cow
sular dispatches concerning suspicious vessels.
	Your particular attention is called to the case of the steamer tJ~ty Qf
?etersburg. Her character is undoubted, and the consul xvhQ f~rnis~ied
the information is of opinion that she should be captured whereyer
found on the high seas.
Very respectfully,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy
~cting Rear-Admiral JAMES L. LARDNER,
Commanding West India Squadron

Page 490

490	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Instructions from the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral
Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding West India Squadron, regarding
the limits of his command.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 4, 1863.

	Sn~: In consequence of the recent withdrawal of vessels from your
squadron, the Department deems it expedient to reduce the area of
your command.
	Hereafter, the islands and waters northward and westward of Crooked
Island Passage will be considered as within the limits of the Eastern
Gulf Squadron, and Acting Rear-Admiral Bailey has been instructed
accordingly.
Very respectfully,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Rear-Admiral JAMES L. LARIYNER,
Commanding West India Squadron, Cape Blaitien.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Master Clark, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. ship Onward, to proceed to Porto Grande, Cape Verde
Islands, for information regarding the movements of the C. S. S. Ala-
bama and consorts.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 5, 1863.
	SIR: Proceed with the U. S. ship Onward to Porto Grande, Cape Verde
[Islands], at which port you will be likely to get very late news respect-
ing the whereabouts of the piratical cruisers by the English mail
steamers touching there. This news will be your guide for your further
movements, as the Department expects you to follow the Alabama and
her consorts. Should you obtain no authentic information of these
vessels, you will go out to Fernando de Noronha, and thence along the
coast of Brazil, enquiring diligently for the pirates, and proceeding at
once and with all possible speed in search of them should you obtaiu
notice of their whereabouts. It is not expected that you will go to the
East Indies, unless actually in the track of a pirate, but confine your-
self to the North and South Atlantic Ocean.
	Upon falling in with any United States vessel commanded by an
officer senior to yourself, you will report to him, showing this order.
	You will not return to the United States for provisions if you can get
them abroad, unless there is no prospect of meeting the pirates.
Very respectfully,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Master WILLIAM II. CLARK,
Commanding U. S. Ship Onward, Hampton Roads, Va.


Letter from the U. S. consul at Port Louis, ]Ifauritius, to the Secretary of
the Navy, urging the necessity of an armed force in those waters.

CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Port Louis, ]Iliauritius, November 5, 1863.
	SIR: In my correspondence with the State Depaitmeut I have several
times represeiited the great importance of having some American
armed force in these waters. In my dispatches to that Department b

Page 491

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUTSERSUNION.	491

this mail IL have reiterated and strongly urged the same subject upon
the attention of the honorable Secretary. Wh4 representations, if
any, he may have made to you upon the matter I can not tell, as suffi-
cient time has not yet elapsed to receive any reply to my communica-
tions; but I beg to bring the subject directly to your notice.
	We have large commercial interests in the Indian Ocean. Quite two
millions of American property were lying in this port at one time
within the past five months. Previous to the recent visit of the Van-
derbi it, no American man-of-war has been in this harbor for several
years. The Vanderbilt has now been some time away, and from the
condition in which she left here it is probable she is on her way to
America. Rumors are rife now, and I must think there is some ground
for some of them, that the Alabama or some of her associates in the
work of destruction are cruising i~ these parts. Yesterday news
reached me (to-day it has been so confirmed as to render it almost cer-
tain) that an American-built vessel bearing the Hamburg flag put into
Foule Point, Madagascar, about twenty days ago, where a part of her
cargo, unquestionably of American origin, was transshipped into a
British brig, which is now on its way to this island. A certain person
has been endeavoring to ascertain if a British register could be obtained
for the ship, and if not to get the usual form of a ships register,
for the purpose, doubtless, of taking it to Madagascar and going
through with the farce of putting the vessel under the Malagash flag.
He has also been endeavoring to see if a sale can be effected of such a
ship here. It is almost certain that the ship referred to is the Sea
Bride, of Bo~ton, captured recently off Cape Town. A brig is signaled
as approaching from toward Madagascar as I write, which, not improb-
ably, is the one containing the stolen goods.
	When the brig arrives here every effort will be made to get posses-
sion of the cargo, should it prove to be, as I have strong reasons for
supposing it, a part of the cargo of an American ship. I shall use
every effort also to get possession of the ship should she come into this
port and prove what I believe she is. I shall write the State Depart-
ment more fully in regard to the whole affair. I refer to it here to show
the urgent importance of our having some armed force in these waters.
Were there a vessel here, carrying only a single gun, the rescue of the
Sea Bride would be an easy affair. Again, and at the risk of seeming
unduly importunate and overauxions, let me urge the great importance
that one or more fast-sailing steamers be dispatched to cruise here-
abouts.
	Hoping to hear soon that such have been ordered hither, and hoping
still more ardently to see the steamers here,
.1 beg leave to remain, sir, your very obedient servant,
W.	Ill. G. MELLEN,
U.	S. Consul.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Acting Master Collins, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. schooner
George Mangham,of compliance with orders from the Department.

U.	S. SCHOONER GEORGE MANGHAM,
Georgetown, Prince Edward Island, November 5, 1863.
	SIR:	Your letter requiring me to proceed with this vessel and report
to IRear-Admuiral I)almlgren for duty in time South Atlantic Blockadin

Page 492

492	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Squadron has been received. In compliance therewith T shall leave
immediately.
	I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, yo~ir obedient servant,
JOHN COLLINS, Jr.,
Acting Master, Commanding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy~ Washington, D. C.



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding West
lindia Squadron, of the position of the vessels under his command.

FLAGSHIP RHODE ISLAND,
Cape Iliaitien, November 6, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the position of the West India Squad-
ron at this date:
	Rhode Island, temporary flagship, Commander S. D. Trenchard,
arrived on the 3d instant from a cruise to (Thadalonpe and St. Thomas~
	Santiago de Cuba, Captain T. P. Greene, em~)loyed convoying the
California steamers.
	Juniata, Commander J. M. B. Clitz, sailed on the 21st of October for
Santa Marta, New Granada, and Cura~ao.
	Consular dispatches from Bremen affirm that large shipments of coal
are ixiade from Oldenbnrg l)orts in Oldenburg vessels to Santa Marta,
which leads to a suspicion that a coal depot is being established at the
latter port for supplying rebel privateers.
	Commander Clitz has been directed to enquire into the matter in a
quiet way.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	L. LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.

Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner, U. S. iVavy, commanding West
India Squadron, relative to the revolution in San Domingo, West
Indies.
FLAGSHIP RHODE ISLAND,
Cape Haitien, November 6, 1863.
	SIR: I have had the honor to receive the Departments letters of the
2d and 12th of October, transmitting documents from the U. S. consuls
at Turks Island and San Domingo, and inviting my attention to those
papers.
	1 have been unable to learn of any American ship or property afloat
that has been injured by the combatants in the war now raging in the
eastern part of this island. The complaints and calls for assistance
have been made, I believe, in all instances by our colored countrymen
who have settled and become domicihated among the Dominicans.
	Information has been received through the consul-general at Havana
and from other sources that the governor-general of Cuba, and Spanish
officials generally, are impressed with the belief that our Governmen

Page 493

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	493

is interested in the success of the revolutionists and probably assisting,
them. I have therefore, in the absence of urgent reasons for sending a
ship, avoided even the appearance ot interfering in their difficulties.
It is true that a person, claiming to be official, requested an interview
with me about the 12th of October for the purpose of placing Dominica
under the protection of the United States. The visit was respectfully
declined.
	1 beg to add that, in returning a friendly visit of the Spanish com-
modore recently, I took occasion to ask the good offices of himself and
those under his command for my countrymenconsuls and also colored
immigrantswhich he cordially promised.
	I shall probably send a ship to Porto Plata and San Domingo when
the Powhatan arrives.
Very respectfully, your obedient servamit,
J.	L. LARDNER,
Acting Bear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Commander MeDougal, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Wyoming, of the arrival of that vessel at Batavia, Java.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP WYOMING,
Batavia, November 7, 1863.
	SIR: On the recommendation of the surgeon of this ship, I have
transferred for a passage to Boston, in the American bark Hazard,
G. A. Karstens, master, the following named invalids, viz: William
Thompson, seaman, loss of arm at Shimonos6ki; John Wilson, seaman,
debility; Andrew Peterson, seaman, paralysis.
	Nothing has been heard of the movements of the Alabama and Georgia
since the 19th of August, at tIme Cape of Good Hope.
	It was reported in the Singapore Times that the Vanderbilt was at
Mauritius on the 3d of October.
	Repairs in the machinery made it necessary to return to this place on
the 28th ultimo; being completed, I shall sail for the Strait of Sunda
in the morning.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
D.	MODOUGAL,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. ][Iohi can,
of intended cruise to the Cape of Good Hope.

U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Rio, November 7, 1863.
	SIR:	I have to report to the honorable Secretary of the Navy the
arrival of the U. S. S. iMiohican at this l)ort, and shall leave in the
morning on a cruise to the eastward, touching at the Cape of Goo

Page 494

494	OPERATIOKS 01? THE CRUISERSUNION.

Hope and St. Helena, and return to this port in about two months.
The last news I had of the Alabama she was at the Cape of Good Hope
on the 16th September. We are all well on board~
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. GLIsSON,
	Captain, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kear-
sarge, of the return of that vessel to Brest, France, from unsuccessful
pursuit of the C. S. S. Georgia.

U.	S. STEAM Sj~oo~ KEARSARGE,
Brest, France, November 7, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the return of this ship to Brest, after
an unsuccessful pursuit of the Georgia.
	The Kearsarge left Brest during a heavy gale on the 31st ultimo,
which contin tied to blow with increased violence from day to day during
the period sne was out.
	On the 2d instant, after a cruise about the mouth of the British
[English] (and a more extended one in the Irish) Channel, the Kear-
sarge entered the harbor of Cork, where information was received that
the Georgia .had put into Cherbourg the day preceding her departure.
	I have the honor to inform the Department that I shall continue to
watch the Florida at Brest, and should information reach me that the
Georgia has put to sea in advance of the Florida I shall immediately
leave in pursuit of her? as from the position of the mouth of this har-
bor, with its several channels, I deem it almost impossible to prevent the
Florida eluding us.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNo. A. WINSLOW,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commander MeDougal, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Wyoming, transmitting information from U. S. consuls in the East
Indies relative to Confederate vessels.
U. S. STEAM SLOOP WYOMING,
Strait of Sunda, Anjer, November 9, 1863.
	SIR:	I enclose an application from Lieutenant-Commander Kirkland
to be detached from this ship~ I would state that when Captain Price,
commanding the U. S. ship Jdmestown, ordered Mr. Kirkland to this
ship he ordered Lieutenant Barton, one of the officers of this ship, to the
Jamestown. Should Mr. Kirkland be detached, I respectfully request
another officer be ordered in his place.
	On the eve of leaving Batavia yesterday I received a letter from our
consul at Hongkong, containing the copy of one received by him from
our consul at Melbourne. I herewith enclose a copy

Page 495

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	495

	From our consul at Singapore, dated November 3, he states:

	We have no information of any privateer being to the east of the Cape of Good
Hope since the Alabama was reported at Simons Bay about the 10th of August, and
but a rtimor of a Confederate privateer being spoken by an i~nglish vessel, the Ifia-
wat ha, from Ganjam to Colombo. (See Colombo Observer of October 5.)
	The belief that these vessels are in these waters has considerably subsided. The
PEeninsular] and O[riental] mail steamer Columbian arrives this day from (falle and
brings no intelligence whatsoever of the privateers.

	About a week since the English steamer S. S. ]Jiliona reported here
that she had been boarded off Mauritius by the U. S. S. Dacotah, bound
to that port.
	I shall proceed immediately to Christmas Island and make an exam-
ination, and if the informatioii is correct will destroy all supplies found
there. Christmas Island is about 200 miles south of this, and unin-
habited.
	I have the honor to be. very respectfully, your obedient servant,
P.	MCT)OUGAL,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Wa8hington.


[Telegram.l

COLUMBUS, OHIO, November 10, 1863.
(Received at Washington 0:45 p. in.)
	Serious apprehensions are entertained of anattack upon Johnsons
Island. Plea~se order the steamer Michigan to that place at once.
P.	TOD,
Governor.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 11, 1863.

	Move the Michigan to a position near Johnsons Island, so as to be
able to give immediate assistance in case of outbreak or trouble with
the rebel prisoners.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Nrvy.
	Commander JNo. C. CARTER,
Commanding U. S. S. Michigan, Sandusky, Ohio.


[Telegram.]

SANDUSKY, OHIo, November 12, 1863.
(Received at Washington 12:45 p. in.)
	In answer to telegraphic order of 11th instant, the Michigan has laid
as near Johnsons Island as she can get since the 24th of October.
J.	C. CARTER,
Commander, 19T 5~ Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
~Secretary of the Navy.

Page 496

	496	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNiON.
		               [First endorsement.]

	Could not a sand battery be thrown up, commanding the island?
Fox.
[Second endorsement.]

	I have directed the colonel to place his battery on the point near the
light-house, but it will not be necessary while the Michigan is inside.
W.ll.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 12,1863.
	Reliable information is furnished this Department that a project is
on foot in Canada to fit out steamers and attempt a rescue of the
prisoners confined on Johnsons Island. Use the utmost vigilance on
board your vessel, and take every precaution against a surprise to
yourself, as well as the garrison. Rifled guns will be sent to you.
Report any information you may obtain or any wants necessary to
meet the contingency anticipated.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Commander JOHN C. CARTER,
Commanding U. S. S. Michigan, Sandusky, Ohio.


Letter from the U. S. minister to Prance to Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge, regarding the shipment of crew for the
C. S. S. Florida.
LGATION DES l~TATS-UNIS,
Paris, November 14, 1863~
	SIR: Yours of the 11th instant is just received. I have no doubt
but that you are right as to the recruitment of men for the Florida in
this country. Owing to some difficulties in Liverpool they were disap.
pointed in shipping a crew, as was expected in that port. I have
already complained to the Government here and called upon them to
prevent this vessel filling up her crew while lying in a friendly port as
a violation of international law, but fear my complaints will not be
heeded, unless the Florida shall ship more men than she brought into
port.
	The minister informs me that you, too, have endeavored to add to
your crew while in the port. How is this ~ Apprise me in season of
whatever may be done.
Your obedient servant,
WM. L. DAYTON.
Captain WINSLOW,
U.	S. S. Kearsarge.


Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to presidents of two New York
insurance companies, regarding the continual vigilance on the part of
the Department in the protection of American commerce.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 14, 1863.
	GENTLEMEN: The Department duly ~eceived your communication of
the 28th nltimo,in reference to the depredations committed upon Amer-
ican commerce by the Alabama and other rebel cruisers

Page 497

OPERATIoN8 OF Tilfi CRIJISERS--~NION.	497

	The pursuit and capture of these vessels is a matter that the Depart-
ment has had constantly in view, and swift steamers have been contin-
ually in search of them and at times very close ~n to them. They are
under orders to follow them wherever they may go.
	The only vessel which had the impudence to attack our flag at the
entrance of our harbor, the Tacony, was promptly pursued and her
career was soon terminated. The Department had about thirty ves-
sels after her.
	I thank you for your expressioii that energy and ability has credit-
ably marked the administration of this Department in all other chan-
nels of official duties. A rigid blockade of the coast has beent
demanded, and its accomplishment has required all the available force
that the Department could bring to bear. To do this it could not well
dispatch a larger force than it has in search of piratical rovers. It
will continue to give this subject its attention, and hopes as the ave-
nues to the insurrectionary region are becoming closed and the Navy
is enlarging to be able to have a larger force to pursue the pirates and
secure the safety of onr commerce abroad.
Very respectfully, etc.,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	RICHD LATHERS, Esq.,	Secretary of the Navy.
President Creat Western Insurance Company.
J.	P. TAPPAN, Esq.,
President Neptune Insurance Company.
[And other Merchants and Underwriters, New York.]



Report of (Jonzmander Ronekendorif, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Powhatan, regarding the movements of that vessel.

U.	S. S. POWUATAN
Delaware Breakwater, November 15, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report our arrival here this evening, having
been detained in the river by fog. I shall take on board the 100 men
from the U. S. ship Saratoga and transfer the like number to that
vessel and leave at daylight to-morrow morning to carry out your order
of October 26, 1863.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. RONcKENDORFIr,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,		Commander.
		Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.		/



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, commandi~ty West
India Squadron, regarding the vessels under his command.

FLAGSHIP RHODE ISLAND,
Cape Haitien, November 16, 186w
	SIR:	In reply to the Departments letter of October 13, directing
that the vessels of the squadron which are most nrgently in need of
repairs should be sent immediately to the United States (New York and
N W RVOL II3

Page 498

498	OPERA] IONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Boston), two vessels retained will be sufficient under the existing state
of things, I have ordered Commander Clitz, of the Juniata, returned
two days since from New Granada, to prepare wililiout delay to go to
New York. He will probably sail in a week.
	This leaves a squadron of two ships, the Rhode Island and Santiago
de Cuba, the first reported defective iii cylinder and piston, the latter
urgently in need of repairs of both hull and machinery. She will be
sent to Boston next week.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	L. LAUDNER,

Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.


[Telegram.]

JOHNSONS ISLAND, November 17, 1863.
(Received at Washington 10 a. in.)
	The anxiety felt at this place in relation to outbreak of prisoners or
rebel raid from Canada has subsided. There is no cause now for
anxiety.
J.	C. CARTER,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEQN WELLES,
Secretary Navy.


[Telegram.]

SANDUSKY [OHIO], November 19, 1863.
(Received at Washington 11:15 a. in.)
	A reconnoissance made on the Canada coast by an officer of this ship
results iu discovering nothing of a hostile preparation.
J.	C. CARTER,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Letter from the U. S. minister to France to Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge, regarding the shipment of additional
men for that vessel in the port of Brest, France.~

L~GATION DES i~TATS-UNIS,
Paris, November 19, 1863.

	SIR: I was in hopes that I could have seen the minister of foreigu
affairs to-day in reference to the question contained in yours as respects
shipping additional men in the port of Brest for the Kearsarge, but he
has left Paris.
	If the men you refer to aie not absolutely necessary for the Kearsarge,
I think, under all the circumstances, it would be better not to take
them. There is a serious qnestion as to the conduct of this Government
* See pp. 563566

Page 499

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	499

in allowing a crew, or so large a portion of one, to be shipped at Brest
for the Florida, and your act in shipping men for the Kearsarge will
be referred to as a full justification.
	I would prefer, therefore, to keep the question clear of any such act,
that it may stand on its merits only.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
Wi~r. L. DAYTON.
Captain WINSLOW, U. S. S. Kearsarge.


Report of Commander Garter, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Michigan,
requesting instructions regarding uinter quarters for that vessel.

U.	S. S. MICHIGAN,
Off Johnsons Island, Ohio, November 20, 1863.
	SIR: In conference with General Cox. commanding army officer at
this point, in view of the wintering of this ship at Sandusky, he coin-
cides with me in the opinion that it will not be safe for the Michigan
to lie at this point during the approaching winter. The anchorage off
Johnsons Island is entirely open to northeast gales, with bad holding
ground and shoal water, and when heavy ice forms renders it impos-
sible to l~e in safety. It is also considered no longer desirable for her
to remain here, in view of the extensive additions made to the defenses
and the additional land force to be stationed here for the winter. For
these reasons, most respectfully submitted, may Ii request that you will
direct me in relation to her future movements and in regard to her
winter fixtw~es and outfits, which are at Erie, Pa.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	C. CARTER,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES, Secretary of the Navy.
[Endorsement.]

	After arrangements have been made by the War Department which
are considered sufficient by the general in command, the Michigan
might return to Erie and lay up for the winter.

[Enclosure.]

HEADQUARTERS DISTRICT OF OHIO,
Sandusky, November 20, 1863.
	SIR: Upon consultation with pilots and others familiar with this
harbor, I concur in your opinion that it will probably be impossible
for the U. S. S. Michigan to lie off Johnsons Island during the winter,
on account both of the insufficiency of tile holding ground at the
anchorage and of the liability to be drifted ashore by the fields of ice
which are reported to be often carried out by the currents alter a gale.
I shall therefore report to the War Department that the defense of
the island and the depot of prisoners of war can, in my opinion, be
best made by making permanent the increase of garrison and putting
in position a few long-range guns to command the channel. If this is
done I shall regard the island safe, without hazarding the ship by
keeping her at her moorings during the winter.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	D. Cox,
Brigadier- General, QQnmmanding.
Commander J. C. CARTER, U. S. Navy,
Gommanding Steamer Michigan

Page 500

500	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

avy, co)nrnauding U. S. ship St.
Report of Commander Preble U S Y
Louis, from Cadiz, Spain, relative to Confederate vessels in that
vicinity
U.	S. SLOOP OF WAR ST. Louis,
Cadiz, November 21, 1863.
	SIR: I left Lisbon on the 3d of November and arrived here on the
8th, to provision and obtain clothing and small stores for the crew, and
have now on board a supply sufficient for four months of all but bread
and marine clothing. Of those we are entirely destitute. We were
informed a 5ul)ply of bread was to come out from New York in the mer-
chautman Columbia amid conseqnently waited her arrival. She has
come iii within the last few days, without bringing a ponnd of bread or
stores of any kind. Her master suggests it is coming by another ship
belonging to the same owner, and loading for Cadiz. Pending its uncer-
tam arrival, I have had baked a few thousand pounds, sufficient for a
months supply, intending to return here for more when that is
exhausted.
	I am just now in receipt of the following telegraphic message from
Consnl Sprague at Gibraltar:
Un vapor Confederado do guerra estd al Cabo Spartel.

	I am at a loss to know what vessel it can be unless the Southerner,
having letters to-day dated November 12 from Brest that the Florida
is there watched by the Kearsarge, and with only 15 men for a crew,
and the Georgia at Cherbourg. I shall, however, get underway at once
to intercept her. If the St. Louis were a steamer I could be where she
is reported in four hours, but being a sailing vessel and blowing a strong
levanter, it may take as many days. I should be derelict to my duty
if I did not again represent the comparative uselessness of a sailing
vessel like the St. Louis on this station and urge the importance of a
few fast steamers where the rebel buzzards seem now to be gathering.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEO. HENRY PREBLE,

Commander, U S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Letter from the U. S. consul ((t St. Catharines, Brazil,to the U. S. min-
ister to Brazil, announcing the arrival at that port of the C. S. bark
Tuscaloosa.

CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
St. Cat harines, November 21, 1863.
	DEAR SIR: I hasten to inform your Excellency that the piratical
bark Tuscaloosa, of 350 tons, with an armament of three rifled gnus
(one 24 and two 12 pounders), caine in at this l)ort on the 19th instant
for supplies. She is last from Simons Bay, Cape of Good Hope, about
the last of July, this being her first port. She is commanded by one
Low, formerly of the Alabama, by which vessel the Tuscaloosa was
captured, and is now employed as her tender. She has a complement
of about twenty-one men, nearly all of whom are Englishmen, and a con-
siderable portion of them were originally of the crew of the Alabama.
	Low came up to this city from Santa Cruz, her anchorage, on the morn-
ing of the 20th instant, in his fly, manned by four Englishmen, an

Page 501

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSIJNION.	501

immediately ordered a quantity of stores for a months supply for his
vessel. In the meantime I had an interview with the President, during
which Low made his appearance and also con ver~d with the President.
in the result, the President informed Low of his decision that he would
not be permitted to take any supplies of any kind whatever from this
port, and that he would not be permitted to remain in port later than
5 oclock p. m. of that day, or twenty-four hours from the time of his
arrival.
	These orders were strictly enforced, and in order to insure their
effect, Low, together with three of this men (the fourth having deserted
at this port), was taken on board the Brazilian war vessel ill aracana,
steamer, and conveyed on board the vessel at Santa Cruz, and the bark
was then taken in tow by the steamer seaward.
	Low admitted to the President in my presence that the Tuscaloosa
was a tender to the Alabama, but upon my making a point of this admis-
sion on his part he subsequently endeavored to retract or qualify his
admission, but it did not avail him. The Tuscaloosa had made no cap-
tures since leaving Simons Bay.
	I protested in the name of my country, and also upon the ground of
the orders issued in July by the Brazilian minister of war interdicting
the Alabama from all privilege whatever in any Brazilian port, and the
prompt and energetic course adopted by the President is no less credit-
able to himself than it will assuredly tend to strengthen the bond of
harmony and good feeling now existing between the Brazilian Govern-
ment and that of the United States.
	I write tlais in haste, as the captain of a sailing vessel, the schooner
Rilieiro 2d, which sails in a few hours for Rio de Janeiro, is now await.
ing this dispatch. I shall write you further details per mail.
I have the honor to remain, faithfully, yours,
B.	LINDSEY,

Consul.
	Hon. J. WATSON WEBB.

	[P. S.]You will of course see the expediency of dispatching any
vessels which may be at your orders in pursuit of the Tuscaloosa,
especially, moreover, as it is here generally believed that the Alabama
is also in close proximity with her. It is possible the Tuscaloosa may
next proceed to Santos, as she is unquestionably in severe want of
supplies, having been four months at sea.



instructions from the Secretary of the Navy to Commander MieDougal,
U.	S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Wyoming, regarding the pursuit oJ
Confederate vessels in the vicinity of the East Indies.

NAVY DEPARTiVEENT, November 21, 1863.

	Sin: The Department has received your No. 30, acknowledging its
orders of the 6th of June last and announcing your purpose to proceed
with the Wyoming to the Strait of Sunda after a few days repairs and
taking in coal and supplies.
	The latest information from the rebel privateers Alabama and Georgia
places the former in the Bay of Bengal and the latter at Cherbourg,
France. The Florida has for some time been repairing at Brest.
	If the Alabama or any of her consorts visit the East Indies you must
not fail to pursue them wherever they may go and to use your bes

Page 502

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

endea vors to overtake them. Should they not visit that quarter, and
you are satisfied from reliable information that they~are in other ports,
you can return to the United States with the Wyoming according to
order of the 15th of April last.
	The Alabama captured a merchant vessel iii the vicinity of the Cape
of Good Hope and armed her for piratical purposes.
	So long as any of these privateers remain in the East Indies, or there
is a prospect of their coming there, you must not return home with the
Wyoming.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Commander DAVID MOBOUGAL,
Commanding U. S. S. Wyoming, Batavia.



Report of Commander MeDougal, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Wyoming, of the cruise of that vessel in search of (I. S. S. Alabama.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP WYOMING,
Batavia, November 22, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my return to this place yesterday for
coal and other snpplies.
	In my dispaatch of the 9th instant I informed you of the information I
had received in relation to coal being sent to Christmas Island for the
use of the rebel cruisers.
	On the 10th instant I left Anjer and proceeded to and made a critical
examination of Christmas Island, but found no evidence of coal having
been landed; in fact, it was impossible to find an anchorage for a ves-
sel to discharge.
	On my return to Anjer, on the afternoon of the 17th, much to my sur-
prise, I learned that the Alabama passed the Strait of Sunda the day
we, left, and had destroyed the American ship Winged Racer within 30
miles of Anjer, within the Java Sea, then l)roceeded to the northward.
	On the 6th, 120 miles S. S. W. from Java Head, she had fallen in with
the American ship Amanda, which was also burned, after taking what-
ever suited them from both vessels. The Winged Racer was loaded
with sugar and hemp, bound to New York; the Amanda with the same
cargo, bound to England; both from Manila. The Amanda was char-
tered by an English house and the cargo English property. After
destroying the Amanda, the Alabama steered to the northward and
westward and made the island of Sumatra, nnder which she anchored
on the 8th and remained until the morning of the 10th, when she got
underway and proceeded through the straits, keeping close under the
western shore. At noon of that day we were within 25 miles of her.
	Since then I have visited every place in this neighborhood where she
would likely lay in case she intended remaining in this region, but noth-
ing has been heard of her since the 11th.
	I shall get underway immediately and proceed np the Strait of
Banka, thence north, if I hear she has gone in that direction.
	Many reports are in circulation with regard to her movements; one
is that after passing through the China Sea to proceed to California and
capture one of the Panama steamers

Page 503

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	503

	I shall make every effort in my power to find and capture him, having
only to regret that the condition of our boilers is such as to prevent
a heavy pressure of steam being carried.
	Officers and crew well.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
D.	MODOUGAL,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Nary, Washington.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of the insufficiency of the force under his command.

FLAGSHIP POWHATAN,
Cape Haitien, November 24, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to r&#38; port the arrival of the Powhatan yester-
day, and that I have hoisted the flag on board of her to-day.
	The Juniata, in obedience to your order of October 13, sails for New
York to-day.
	The Santiago de Cuba will probably be able to sail for Boston in a
week.
	This leaves a squadron of the Powhatan and Rhode Island, and as
the latter has been reported defective in cylinder and piston, as well as
in her copper, I beg to suggest that the force is hardly sufficient for the
convoy of the California steamers and to keep open the communication
with the Department.
	The returning California steamers pass now by the same route as those
outward bound.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	L. LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Commander Carter, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Michigan,
of improved condition of affairs in the vicinity of Lake Erie.

U.	S. S. MICHIGAN,
Sandusky, Ohio, November 25, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that I have this day received the bat-
tery of rifled guns, with a large supply of ammunition, forwarded by
the Bureau of Ordnance to me at this place as promptly, under the cir-
cumstances, as could be expected. Everything is now in position, and
it gives me pleasure to state that the Michigan is in efficient condition,
and, in case of an emergency, would be able to fit out two or three small
effective steamers from her present armament and still have sufficient
for her own operations. All apprehension of difficulty iii this vicinity
seems to have entirely subsided.
I have the honor to be, your very obedient servant,
J.	C. CARTER,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy

Page 504

504	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION,

Report of Commander Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Van-
derbi It, oJ the arrival oJ that vessel at Bahia, Brazil, from cruise in
search of Confederate vessels.
U.	S. S. VANDERBILT,
J3ahia, November 28, 1863.
	SIR: I last had the honor of addressing the Department from Angra
Pequefia by the prize bark Saxon, on the 30th October.
	Immediately after dispatching that vessel on her voyage I got this
ship inside Penguin Island, near the coal stored there, and which I
referred to as having been sent there from Cape Town some two months
previously, undoubtedly for the Alabama, but which she did not wait
there for.
	I stated that after taking in the coal I should go along the coast as far
us Loango for coal, but as the amount of coal turiied out to be 293 tons,
instead of 200 tons, as I had expected, and I could hear nothing of the
privateers being along that coast (in fact, there being but little induce-
ineiit for them as far as capturing any American vessels), I concluded
that I would have sufficient coal to take me to St. Helena, and thence
over here, and that that route would be far preferable.
	I ran up the coast for a day and then over to St. Helena, where I
communicated with our consul on the 10th November. I regret to say
I got no intelligence of any privateers, so I continued my course over
here, speaking several vessels but getting nothing new.
	I arrived here on the 19th and at once commenced coaling, and have
filled up, having taken in nearly 1,100 tons.
	The mail steamer from River La [Rio de la] Plata and Rio de Janeiro
has just arrived, but brings no iiews of any. privateers to the south-
ward.
	We are now engaged overhauling and, as usual, patching the boilers,
and being unable to get but slight assistance from shore it will be three
or four days before we shall be ready for sea. Our boilers are much
run down, but the crack in the shaft has not increased, but of course
we have been running with very low steam.
	1 shall go from here to Pernambuco, and in the absence of any intel-
ligence by the English mail steamer, now nearly due here, shall con-
tinue on to Fernando de Noronha and in the track of homeward-bound
ships, calling at Barbados, Martinique, and St. Thomas, to New York.
	Of coarse, under my instructions, should I hear of any privateers in
a different direction I shall follow them if possible, though the state of
our boilers absolutely requires large repairs as soon as possible.
	Enclosing a copy of my last dispatch,
	I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	II. BALDWIN,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear- Admiral Larduer,
U. S. Navy, enjoining the observance of strict neutrality in connection
with Spanish disturbances.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, November 28, 1863.
	SIR: In a recent com~nunication addressed to the Department of
State by Mr. Tassara, minister plenipotentiary of hei- Catholic Majesty

Page 505

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	505

it is represented that the Spanish Government have reason to apprehend
that expeditions have departed or may depart from the United States
to engage or mingle in the war which is raging ~n a portion of the
island of San 1)omingo.
	This Government will be as earnest ill its endeavor to perform all of
its neutral obligations toward other states as it has been in asking their
performance of such obligations toward the United States. The repre-
sentations to which I have referred are general, and afford no basis for
special enquiry by the Government, bnt it is our duty to be vigilant for
the purpose of preventing or averting any proceedings in violation of
the neutrality laws, to the injury of either of the contending parties in
the island of San Domingo.
	Let, therefore, this subject have such share of your attention as its
importance demands, and impress upon the commanders of the vessels
of yonr squadron the necessity of vigilance to intercept any unlawful
expedition which niay have been fitted out in the United States, and
which may have for its object the landing upon the island of Sau
Domingo, or upon any other territory under the jurisdiction of friendly
powers within the limits of your command.
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Rear-Admiral JAMES L. LARD NER,
Commanding West India Squadron, Cape Haitien.



Letter rom the U. S. consul at London to the U. ~ minister to Great
Brmtamn regarding the departure from that port of the C. S. S. Rappa-
hannock, formerly H. B. M. S. Victor.
U.	S. CONSULATE,
London, November 28, 1863.
	SIR: The Confederate steamer Rappahannock, reported this morning
at Calais, France, was her Majestys steamer Victor, recently sold out
of the Government service. She has until recently been at Sheerness,
opposite the Government dockyard, and has been prepared for sea and
for active service (so far as she was prepared, when she left suddenly
at midnight) by laborers, many of whom were employed at the Govern-
ment dockyard at that place. A party of riggers was on board when
she left, at work on her. Her rigging was not then rattled down.
These riggers were from the Government yard, and I am informed that
these men were selected and sent off to the Victor by the master rigger
at the dock. Also that the masts of her Majestys ship ~Jumberland
were used as shears to set the masts of the Victor, then called the
Scylla and now the Rappahannocc, and that other petty officers at the
Government yard have been employed to engage men and render other
service to this privateer. In fact, that she was being prepared for
service with the greatest secrecy and dispatch, as a Confederate priva-
teer, under the cover and protection which her former ownership,
proximity to the yard while being fitted out, and the employment of
hands from the yard, threw around her.
	She went off in quite an incomplete state, and would not have gone
for some days but for the fact that the Government here, as is supposed,
became suspicious from some cause that materials from the yard had
been used in repairing and fitting her, and ordered a search to asce~

Page 506

506	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS-UNION.

taiu the truth of the story. In a few hours after she left suddenly,
near midnight on the morning of Wednesday, the 25th iHstant, in tow
of the tugboat Bull Dog. She came to anchor iear the Tongue light,
lay there a short time, and then went to Calais.
	The above facts, with many others of equal impol-tance, 11 expect to
make good by sworn affidavits from responsible men, and will do so as
soon as possible.
	I do not mean to intimate by anything said above that the British
Government or any officer of position connected with it had any suspi-
cion that they were selling a Government war ship into the Confederate
service, and lending one of their dockyards as a protection to fit her out
as a privateer to be used against our commerce. I think they have
been deceived by agents of the Confederates, and will be ready and
anxious to act with more than their usual energy to remedy the evil.
Your obedient servant,
F.	H. MORSE,
U.	AS~ Consul.
	Hon. C. F. ADAMS, etc.



Report of (Jommander ]JfcDougal, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Wyoming, of the arrival of that vessel at Singapore, East Indies, from
cruise in search of C. S. S. Alabama.

11.	5. STEAM SLOOP WYOMING,
Singapore, November 30, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report my arrival at this place this morning.
After leaving Batavia on the 22d I touched at Anjer, thence up
through the Strait of Banka to the iDutch settlement of Rhio, where I
replenished my coal.
	In the Strait of Banka, on the 25th, I spoke the Dutch mail steamer
from this place, who informed me that it was reported that the Alabama
was cruising off Pedra Branca, at the entrance of the Strait of Singa-
pore, and that she was expected to visit this place.
	Yesterday I visited Pedia Branca; nothing was seen or heard of the
Alabama. As I wished to fill up with provisions and obtain news I
came in this morning, and on the passage in, a native boat came along-
side with two letters and a package of mmewspapers for Captain Semmes,
of the Alabama, from the firm of Cumming, Beaver &#38; Co. After secur-
ing the letters I sent the boat adrift. Enclosed are copies of the letters.
	Nothing positive has been heard of time Alabama since she burned
the Winged Racer on the morning of the 11th, though the consul informed
me there are daily reports in circulation at this place, but without any
foundation.
	As this is the general center for news I shall, as soon as I fill up with
provisions, remain in this neighborhood until I receive some definite
news as to the whereabouts of the Alabama.
	On my anchoring I was waited on by the harbor master with the
Queens proclamation in relation to belligerents; ray attention was par-
ticularly called to paragraphs 2,3, and 4. 1 informed him that I hoped
to be away within twenty-four hours. He then informed me froni the
governor that all islands within a circuit of 10 miles had been ceded to
the English Government, and that within 3 miles of their shores their
jurisdiction extended and was neutral.
	I would state that at Batavia and Ithio I met with the kimi lest atten-
tion from the Dutch officials, who always expressed strong friendshi

Page 507

oPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	507

and sympathy for our cause and country. At the latter place they,
without any hesitation, furnished me with Gover~Ineut coal, with a
request that it would be returned. Arrangements have been made with
our consul, Mr. Cobb, at this place to that purpose.
	In my dispatch No. 38 1 mentioned the cjndition of the boilers of this
ship. Every days steaming shows new defects, which will, I am afraid,
prevent this ship from going north against the strong northeast mon-
soons prevailing at this season of the year, should it prove that the
Alabama has gone in that direction.
	I shall sail this afternoon (December 1). Officers and crew continue
in good health.
	I have, etc.,	D. MODOUGAL,
	Conunauder.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.

[Enclosures.]

SINGAPORE, November 10, 1863.
	DEAR SIRS: We shall feel obliged by your calling upon us as soon
as convenient after your arrival at this port, having matters of interest
to you to communicate.
We remain, dear sirs, yours, faithfully,
CUMMING, BEAVER &#38; Co.

	CAPTAINS OF CONFEDERATE GOVERNMENT STEAMERS.



SINGAPORE, November 20, 1863.
	DEAR SIR: We represent your Governments interest at this port,
and, hearing you were outside, take this opportunity of advising you
that we are prepared to further your views in any way you may point
out. If you require any outfit or supplies we will send them to you,
and a letter given to bearer will reach us safely.
	We send you some papers which may prove interesting, and remain,
	Yours, in haste,	CUMMING, BEAVER &#38; Co.

	Captain SEMMES,
Confederate Government Steamer Alabama.



Letter from the U. S. consular agent, Cherbourg, France, to Capt am
Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge, regarding the
C. S. S. Georgia.

U.	S. CONSULAR AGENCY,
Cherbourg, December 1, 1863.
	SIR: Yoir letter of the 27th ultimo has been duly received. The
Georgia anchored at noon in the harbor; her repairs seem to be com-
pleted. Up to this time (4 oclock p. in.) she has not taken her powder
on board.
I remain, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	EDOUARD LIAIS,
Consular Agent.
	Captain JOHN A. WINSLOW,
Commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge, Brest

Page 508

	508	OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSUNION.
		                   [Telegram.]

NAvY DEPARTMENT, December 1, 1863.
	If there is danger of navigation closing aud~ the military comman-
dant at ~Johnsous Island feels secure, you can return to Erie with the
Michigan.
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commander JNO. ~. CARTER	ASecretary of the Navy.
Commanding U. S. S. Michigan, Sandusky, Ohio.



Report of Commander Clitz, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Juniata,
of arrival of that vessel at navy yard, New York, enclosing copy of
orders.
U.	S. S. JUNIATA
Off Navy Yard, New York, December 2, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you of my arrival at this place with
this vessel, under my command.
	I herewith enclose you a copy of my orders.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	M. B. CLITZ,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES.	Commander.

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C:
rEnclosure.]

FLAGSHIP POWITATAN,

Cape Haitien, November 24, 1863.
	SIR: You will proceed with the Juniata, under your command, to
New York, and upon your arrival report yourself to the rear-admiral
in command of the navy yard and to the honorable Secretary of the
Navy.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	L. LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West india Squadron.
	Commander J. M. B. CLITZ,

U.	S. S. Juniata.


Memorandum from the Secretary of U. S. legation, London, to Captain
Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge, regarding Con-
federate vessels.
U.	S. LEGATION,
London, December 2, 1863.
	The bark Agrippina carried the armament to the No. 290 at Terceira.
She belongs to the rebel Government. She is painted black, with a
yellow bead along her sides; has a boat hanging by davits on star-
board, but none on her larboard. She has no topgallant on the fore-
mast.
	When she left London she was to rendezvons in the straits between
the islands of San Miguel and Formigas, the most southern point of the
Azores

Page 509

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	509

	Our informant says she is slow, l)ut others declare differently. She
was still at Plymouth last Saturday, the 28th November.
	It is pretended she is bound for St. Georges, Beri~uda, and may go
there after supplying the vessels she is to meet.
	The name of this vessel we cant positively learn, but suppose it to
be either the Florida, Georgia, or Rappahannock.
	She is 30 years old. She has carried coal twice to the No. 290. The
captains name is McQueen, the same that was on board when she
armed the 290. He is a most active rebel agent.
	It is stated that she has two boats on deck, one turned upside down
over the other.
BENJN. MORAN.
	[Captain WINSLOW,
U.	S. S. Kearsarge.]


Report of Commander Preble, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship
St. Louis, of arrival of that vessel at A igeciras, Spain, from cruise in
search of supposed Go~federate vessel.

U.	S. SLOOP OF WAR ST. Louis,
Algeciras, December 3, 1863.
	SIR: I have to rel)ort the arrival of the St. Louis at this anchorage
from a cruise in search of a rebcl steamer reported seen off Cape Spar-
tel. After satisfying myself there was nothing suspicious to be found
in that vicinity, I anchored in Tangier Bay, the weather being very
heavy, as it was at our sailing and has continued ever since we left
Cadiz.
	On receiving from Mr. Sprague a description of the supposed rebel,
I recognized it as answering in every particular to a French steamer of
war, the Talisman, a dispatch vessel attached to the Imperial Ironclad
Squadron, and which arrived at Cadiz from the Canary Islands on the
afternoon of the 19th ultimo. The same day the rebel steamer was
reported seen off Cape Spartel. I have communicated with Mr. Sprague
who agrees with me in this opinion.
	I shall return to Cadiz for bread and water and our mail in a few
days.
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEO. HENRY PREELE,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge,
transmitting in.,formation from French sources regarding the C. S. S.
Rappahannock.
U. S. S. KEARSARGE,
Brest, France, December 3, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to enclose herewith a copy of a letter received
from the assistant secretary of legation at Paris. This information
causes some perplexity as to the wisest course to pursue in order to
intercept some of these vessels

Page 510

510
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I have already informed the Department that there are three chan-
nels of egress from the mouth of this harbor. The island of Ushant
and the reefs to the southward from the main entrance, and a league
from the line with the headlands, which we hav~ been ordered outside
of in case of blockade, is over 20 miles distant from the inner channels.
It must be, therefore, under favorable circumstances that we could dis-
cover the Florida.
	The position of Cherbourg, with a breakwater of several miles, opens
two passages of egress for the Georgia, and although not so intricate
in character as the entrance of Brest, yet necessitates a watch on
either passage. The chances of our meeting the Rappahannocic, I think,
for these reasons, are most favorable. I shall therefore direct my atten-
tion more particularly to her, and if I can ascertain the information she
will rendezvous at the Azores is reliable [will] follow her to that point.
I am now waiting for telegram informing me whether she has left
Calais, and will sail for the British [English] Channel immediately after
its receipt.
	Dispatches by telegraph or otherwise are subject to Government
espionage here, and from this cause are attended with unusual delay.
It is not improbable, as the Emperor favors the Confederates, that
detention may not be authorized.
	The Florida is not yet ready, and I think it doubtful whether she
will sail for a month. The Georgia, I learn, is more advanced. I am
in hopes, however, of seeing some of our cruisers before the departure
of either of them.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNO. A. WINSLOW,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.
[Enclosure.]

LGATION DES flTATS-UNIS,
Paris, November 30, 1863.
	SIR: I am directed by the minister to send you the following copy
of a letter just received from Mr. Bigelow, 1ff. S. consul at Paris, who
is now in London:
LONDON, November 28, 1863.
	Mv DEAR SIR: The 1?appahannock was formerly the Victor, of the royal navy.
She escaped from Sheerness on the night of the 24th about 1 oclock without a clear-
ance, her owners having discovered that her destination had leaked out and that she
was likely to be seized the next day, or at least complained of.
	I learn from Mr. Vendroux by last evenings mail that the Imperial Governmcnt
has directed the authorities at Calais to let the ship sail when she pleascs. Mr.
Morse has evidence of all the circumstances connected with he~ fittings out and
escape, which lie is reducing to an affidavit, to be made the basis of a representa-
tion to the British Government.
	It is intended by the Confederates to arm and equip the Jlappahannock at sea.
Two vessels bclongrng to the Confederates, the Agrippina and the Harriet Pinckney,
are to take out her equipment and to make the trausfcr at the Azores Islands between
St. Michael [San Miguel] and Formigas.
	The Agrijppina left London last Saturday and the Harriet Pinckney the 16th. Both
are now at Plymouth.
	The above information of the place of rendezvous is given to you in strict coa-
tidence

Page 511

511
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
	The following description may assist you iii making out the Rappa-
kannock: Boat hanging by davits on starboard, none on larboard;
painted black, with small yellow streak.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
WILLIAM L. DAYTON, Jr.,
Assistant Secretary of Legation.
	Captain WINSLOW,
U.	S. S. Kearsarge.

	P. S.The Rappahannock arrived at Calais in an unfinished state on
the 25th ultimo. She is pierced for eight guns, but has none on board.
The enclosed extract from (lalignanis Messenger will give you some
more details.
ID., Jr.


Newspaper clipping.

	A letter from Calais in the press says:
	A large screw steamer called the Bappahannock has arrived in this port. She car-
ries the flag of the Southern States of America (white, with a red corner, and with
a blue St. Andrews cross and the thirteen stars) and a pennant of the same colors.
This steamer was in the roadstea.d from midnight waiting to receive on board fifteen
young Americans who have been residing here for more than two months, and
who are to serve as her officers. These persons embarked on board a fishing boat
which they had hired to convey them to Bonlogne, as they told the master of her,
in order to conceal their project and avoid the police. When once they were out-
side the port, hQwever, they ordered him to put them on board a vessel from which
rockets were being fired, which was the signal agreed upon. The master of the
boat in alarm called out loudly for assistance from some other boats near, and with
their help he returned into port, where lie landed his passengers, who were much
annoyed at what had occnrred. The J?appahannock, which has been purchased for
the Confederate Government, was an English vessel undergoing repairs at Sheerness.
She left that port under pretense of trying her machinery, and taking with her as
crexv the mechanics an4 ship carpenters who were at work on board. Once at sea
the English flag was replaced by that of the Southern States. She has not yet any
guns on board, but is pierced for eight of heavy metal. The authorities of Calais
having applied to Paris, have received orders to allow the Rappahannoek to leave
when she thinks proper. A. part of the crew have arrived by steamer from Dover.
The appearance of a Northern cruiser, which is now in the channel, is looked for.





Report of Captain Greene, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Santiago do
Cuba, of the arrival of that vessel at the navy yard, Boston, and enclos-
ing copy of orders.

U.	S. S. SANTIAGO BE CUBA,
Navy Yard, Boston, iilass., December 6, 1863.
	SIR: In obedience to the order of Acting Rear-Admiral J. L. Lard-
ner, of which the enclosed is a copy, the Santiago de Cuba, under my
command. sailed from Cape ilaitien on the evening of the 28th ultimo
and arrived at the navy yard this morning.
I am, with much respect, your obedient servant,
THEO. P. GREENE,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 512

	512	OPERATIONS OF ~HE C1~UlSE1~SUNION.
		                [Enclosure.]

FLAGSHIP POWHATAN,
Cape Raitien,November 27, 1863.
	Sir:	You will proceed with the Santiago de Cuba, under your command,
to Boston, and upon your arrival report in writing to the honorable Sec-
retary of the Navy and in person to the commandant of the navy yard.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	L. LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Captain THEODORE P. GREENE,
U. S. S. Santiago de (mba.



Report of Acting Master Clark, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship
Onward, of the arrival of that vessel at Porto Grande, Cape Verde
Islands.

U.	S. SHIP ONWARD,
Porto Grande [Cape Verde Islands], December 7, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report the arrival of the U. S. ship Onward
at this port on the 2d of December, and remained to communicate with
French steamers, one of which arrived on the 6th and one on the 7th
of December.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	WM. H. CLARK,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Acting Master, Commanding.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



The Chesapeake affair.
Report of the deputy collector of customs, Portland, Me., of the seizure of the steamer

Chesapeake by a party claiming to be Confederates, December 8, 1863.

[Telegram.]

PORTLAND, ME. [December 9], 186310:45 a. m.
	SIR:	Steamer Chesapeake, of New York was captured on down trip
by 17 rebels. She was at St. John [New Brunswick] this morning.
We need the gunboat Agawam, on board of which to place officers and
men of J. C. Dobbin, with armament and munitions, to pursue and
capture Chesapeake. Can not Agawam be taken for this purpose~
	It. A. BIRD,
	Admiral (~EGORY,	Deputy Collector of Customs.
United States Hotel.
[Endorsement.]

	Returned for answer to Mr. Bird: If Agawam suits your purpose,
take her.
	P.R. G

Page 513

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	513

[Telegram.]

CHARLESTOWN, Mass., December 9, 1863.
(Received at\Vashington 3:15 p. in.)
	The collector of customs at Portland [Me.] has telegraphed that the
steamer Ohesapeake was seized by 17 rebels on her trip to Portland.
She is now in Bay of Fuiidy, has .slig!~t aritainent and short of coal;
can be retaken. Have you anything ym can send in pursuit? I shall
dispatch the Acacia as soon as her powder is on board, unless otherwise
ordered.
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
[Commandant.]
	Hon. G. WELLES.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 9, 1863.
	Get some light artillery and soldiers from the authorities and go out
in pursuit of the Chesapeake.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Commander A. C. RITIND, U. S. Navy,
Portland, Me.


[Telegram.]

BOSTON, December 9, 1863.
(Received at Washington 3:20 p. in.)
	The Ella and Annie, prize, has been appraised and has coal enough
on board for a trip. I have offered her to Commodore Hudson [Montgom.
ery] to chase the Chesapeake. Will you authorize him to send her out?
J.	S. KEYES,
U.	S. Marshal.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 9, 1863.

	Steamer Chesapeake, of New York and Portland line, has been seized
by rebel passengers off Cape Cod, second engineer killed and captain
landed at St. John [New Brunswick]. Answer immediately what ves-
sels you have to go in search of her.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Rear Admiral II. PAULDING,
Commandant of Navy Yard, Neu York.


[Telegram.]

BROOKLYN, December 9, 1863.
(Received at Washington 3:30 p. in.)
	Steamer Chesapeake sailed last Saturday for Portland; 25 passengers
on board. When 20 miles north of Cape Cod, 17 passengers took the
	N W RVOL II	3

Page 514

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

vessel, killed second, engineer, and lauded remainder of passengers and
crew this side of St. John [New Brunswick], and left with the vessel.
Above taken from bulletins. Grand Gulf; Vicks~urg, and Sebago can
be sent in pursuit to-morrow.
II. PAULDING,
Commandant.
Hon. G. WELLES.

[Telegram.]

BosToN, December 9, 1863.
(Received at Washington 3:35 p. in.)
	Seventeen rebels in disguise shipped as passengers on board steamer
Chesapeake at New York, bound for Portland, last Saturday afternoon.
On Sunday last they seized the steamer, piratically murdered some
officers, sent other officers, crew, aumd passengers to St. John [New
Brunswick] in a boat. Chesapeake then sailed in an easterly direction,
and will probably try to capture steamer which leaves Portland to-day.
I pm-ay immediate orders for pursuit to be made from the Charlestown
[Mass.] and other navy yards, and that the proper requisition be made
on British Government for the pirates, should they be found within
British jurisdiction.
JNO. A. ANDREW,
Governor of Massachusetts.
Hon. GIDEON ~\TELLES


[Telegram.]

NEW Youx, December 9, 1863.
(Received at Washington 12:20 p. in.)
	We offer you the services, free of compensation, of two steamers
similar to Chesapeake if you will man and arm them. They can leave
to-night.
H. B. CROMWELL &#38; Co.
GIDEON WELLES, Secretary of the Navy.

[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 9, 1863.
	II. B. Cromwell &#38; Co. offer, free of cost, two steamers similar to
Chesapeake. Take them, arm them, and send them out.
GIDEON WELLES,
	Rear~Admiral II. PAULDING,	Secretary of the Navy.
Commandant of Navy Yard, New York.

[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 9, 1863.
	Steamer Chesapeake, of New York and Portland line, has been seized
by rebel passengers oft~ Cape Cod, second engineer killed, and captain
landed at St. John [New Brunswick]. Answer immediately what vessel
you have to go in search of her.
GIDEON WELLES,
	Commodore C. K. STRIELING,	Secretary of the Navy.
~Jommandant of Navy Yard, Philadelphia

Page 515

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	515

[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, ~jlJecember 9, 1863.

	Send the Ticonderoga to St. John in pursuit of the Chesapeake, with
orders to follow her wherever she may be. Send out any other vessel
ready. Answer.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Commodore J. B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant of Navy Yard, Boston, Mass.



[Telegram.]


ST. JOHN, NEW BRUNSWICK, December 9, 1863.
(Received at Washington 6:20 p. in.)
	Steamer Chesapeake was within 2 miles of this port last night. Sent
Captain Willett, his crew, and passengers ashore. Received two officers
and left at 4 a. in., probably for Halifax. He is still in Bay of Fundy,
I believe, waiting for coal. Have telegraphed to collectors at Boston,
Portland, New York, and Eastport, and to consul at Halifax.
J.	Q. HOWARD,
U.	S. Consul.
	Hon. W. H. SEWARD.


[Telegram.]


CHARLESTOWN, MASS., December 9, 1863.
(Received at Washington 6:15 p. in.)
	U. S. S. Acacia sailed at 4 oclock in search of the Chesapeake. Steamer
Ella and Annie will go in two or three hours; Ticonderoga the moment
she can be got ready.
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,

Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


[Telegram.]

PORTSMOUTH, N. H., December 9, 1863.
(Received at Washington 6:35 p. rn.1
	A telegram from the deputy collector of Portland informs me that the
Chesapeake has been captured by 17 rebels and was in the port of St.
John, and that the Agawam was wanted to go in pursuit with the crew
and armament of the Dobbin. I have replied that there was no objec-
tions to the Agawams going, if ready, and that Commander Murray
would be in Portland to-night to arrange matters. I am also getting
the Daeotah ready.
(1.	F. PEARSON,

Commandant.
Hon. G. WELLES,
Secretary Navy

Page 516

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
516

[Telegram.]

NEW YoRK, December 9, 18638 p. m.
(Received at Washiiig~n 9:15 p. in.)
	I have sent to Messrs. Cromwell and received their answer as follows:

	We find oniy the steamer Potomac can be got ready immediately. We are discharg-
ing freight from her to-night and will have her at th~ navy yard early to-morrow
forenoon.

	I ask further instructions.
H.	PAULDING,
Commandant.
Hon. G. WELLES.


[Telegram.]

NEW YORK, December 9, 1863.
	SIR: We urgently request pnrsuit by naval vessels of the propeller
Chesapeake, seized on her passage from New York for Portland; also
that consuls be instructed to demand her possession should she arrive
within their districts.
J.	D. JONES,
President Atlantic Mutual Insurance.
HON. GIDEON WELLES.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 10, 1863.
	Have the Dacotak ready and report when she is ready for orders.
GIDEON WELLES,
&#38; cretary of the Navy.
	Commodore GEo. F. PEARSON,
Commandant Navy Yard, Portsmouth, N. H.

[Telegram.]

PORTSMOUTH [N. H.], December 10, 1863.
(Received at Washington 9:30 a. in.)
	Your telegram relative to Dacotah received. She will be cleaned
with great dispatch and no repairs not done while cleaning put on her.
Her officers and men will be retained here.
G.	F. PEARSON,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
&#38; cretary Navy.

[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 10, 1863.
	As several armed vessels are already off, and Mr. Cromwell was
mistaken in his telegram to the Department, you Ileed not take the
Potomac.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Rear-Admiral H. PAULDING,
Commandant of Navy Yard, New York

Page 517

517
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS-UNION.
[Telegram.]

CHARLESTOWN [MASS.], December 10 18631:40 p m.
(Received at Washington 2:20 p. in.)
	At request of U. S. Marshal Keyes and the collector of Portland, I
have armed, manned, and dispatched the prize Ella and Annie in pur-
suit of the Chesapeake. The prize steamer Cornubia has also been
oiThred, and unless otherwise directed by the Department will be pre-
pared upon arrival at this yard. B. MONTGOMERY,

Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES.



[Telegram.]

ST. JOHN, NEW BRUNSWICK, December 10, 1863.
(Received at Washington 6 p. in.)
	Steamer Chesapeake is at Pnbnico flarbor, near Cape Sable, Nova
Scotia. Have telegraphed to collectors at Boston, Portland, Eastport.
Steamer did not coal at St. John or in Bay of Fnndy. Have sent
details.
J.	Q. HOWARD,
	U. ~S Consul.
	Hon. W. II. SEWARD.
		[Endorsement.]

	The Navy Department has sent to all the northern yards and to the
frigate Niagara, and they will be off to-night.	Fox.



[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 10, 1863.
	The Chesapeake is at Pnbnico Harbor, near Cape Sable. Send out
any steamer first ready to search the coasts in that neighborhood, and
if she is found in port to call upon the colonial authorities to seize her
for piracy. Answer.
GIDEON WELLES,
&#38; cretary.
Commodore Mo-NTGoMERY,
Boston Navy Yard.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 10, 1863.
	The captured steamer Chesapeake is at Pubnico Harbor, near Cape
Sable. Proceed there with the utmost dispatch and search the whole
coast, and if found in port call upon the British authorities to seize
her. Answer.
GIDEON WELLES,
&#38; cretary.
	Commodore CRAVEN,
Commanding U. S. S. Niagara, Gloucester, Mass

Page 518

	518	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		                [Telegram.]

NEW YORK, December 10, 1863.
(Received at Washington 5:10 p. in.)
	The Vicksburg, Sebago, and Grand Gulf have sailed in search of the
Chesapeake. Copy of orders to-morrow.
H.	PAULIDING,
Commandant.
Hon. G. WELLES,
Secretary of Navy.


[Telegram.]

PORTSMOUTH [N. II.], December 10, 1863.
(Received at Washington 9:30 p. in.)
	After my telegram of yesterday left I learned that the Agawam had
left Portland in pursuit of the Chesapeake, and therefore did not send
Commander Murray, and shall not send the Dacotah without your
orders.
G.	F. PEARSON,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 10, 1863.
	The Chesapeake is at Pubnico Harbor, near Cape Sable. Send out
the Dacotah under Commander Murray (if Commander Clary is not
there), with orders to search the coasts in that vicinity, and if found iii
port call upon the colonial authorities to seize her for piracy. Answer.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary.
	Commodore PEARSON,
Navy Yard, Portsmouth, N. H.

[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 10, 1863.
	The Chesapeake is at Pubnico Harbor, near C ape Sable. Several ves-
sels have been dispatched to that point, if any of yours have not yet
sailed, hold them ready until further orders.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary.
	Rear-Admiral PAULDING,
iNew York Navy Yard.

[Telegram.]

I~TEW YORK, December 11, 1863.
(Received at Washington 8:45 a. in.)
	Dispatch received. Our three gunboats sailed yesterday.
H.	PAULDING,
Commandant.
Hon G. WELLES

Page 519

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	519

[Telegram.]

BROOKLYN, December 11, 1863.
(Received at Washington 10:20 a. in.)
	Since receiving telegram this morning Sebago put back. She is now
ready. I have just received information differing from that of the
Department. Dispatch is necessary. 1 am not allowed to cominuni-
tate further, but ask for discretion.
H.	PAULDING,
[Commandant.]
Hon. G. WELLES.

[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 11, 1863.
	Dispatch received. Act according to your own judgment.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Rear-Admiral H. PAULDING,
Commandant of Navy Yard, New York.


[Telegram.]

BROOKLYN, December 11, 1863.
(Received at Washington 12 in.)
	Vicksburg stopped at buoys in lower bay to adjust compass. I will
detain her. Is it desirable to charter a steamer and have her ready ~
Dinsmore ready to sail for Key West to-morrow.
H.	PAULDING,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 11, 1863.
	It is not desirable to charter a steamer. Send out any steamer ready,
if you have any information as to the Chesapeake. The latest of the
Department is that she was at Cape Sable, and several steamers from
Boston have gone there.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Rear-Admiral II. PAULDING,
Commandant of Navy Yard, New York.


[Telegram.]

NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, December 11, 1863.

	SIR: After examining charts, I deem the information given this
morning incorrect. The water is shoal iii the locality, on Shunacade
[Shubenacadiej itiver, 50 miles to the north of Halifax, at London

Page 520

520	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

derry [Nova Scotia], and probably freezes at this season of the year.
I was under an injunction of secrecy, and am now permitted to com-
inunicate thus much.
	The consul at Halifax might investigate.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
H.	PAULDING,
	Commandant.
Hon. GIDEoN WELLES,
&#38; cretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


[Telegram.]

CHARLESTOWN, MASS., December 11, 186311:25 a. m.
(Received at Washington 12 in.)
	The Ticonderoga sailed in pursuit of the Chesapeake at 10 oclock.
Commander of the Acacia telegraphed that his vessel is alongside the
wharf at Portland, Me., in a sinking condition; he gives no particulars.
I have telegraphed to nse all appliances to save the vessel. I shall
send the naval constructor by the first train for his assistance, and
shall telegraph the Department any further information I may obtain.
	J. B. MONTGOMERY,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commandant.
AS~ecretary Navy.


[Telegram.]

PORTSMOUTH, N. II., December U, 18632 p. m.
(Received at Washington 2 :1() p. in.)
	Commander Clary is here, and the Dacota h will be dispatched as
soon as possible to search the coast near Cape Sable.
	G. F. PEARSON,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES.	Commandant.


[Telegram.]

PORTLAND, ME., December 11, 18633:15 p. m.
(Received 3:30 p. in.)
	The folloWing telegram just received from Halifax [Nova Scotia]:
	Steamer in Shelburne answering description Chesapeake attempted to get coal here
last night. Government applied to. No encouragement given. Want evidence of
murder committed. Make affidavit charge to-day. Crown officer deliberating
upon it.
N.	Gui~NIsON,

	Will Lord Lyons send instructions 7
I. WASHBURN, Jr.,
Collector.
	Hon. WM. H. SEWARD,
iS~eeretar~y of &#38; ate

Page 521

521
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
[Telegram.]

CHARLESTOWN [MAss.], December 11, 1863.
(Received at Washuii~gton 4 p. in.)
	Commander of Acacia telegraphs:
	Through the help of the fire department the Acacia is now alongside a wharf,
where she can not sink.
	The damage in her I can not yet ascertain.
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
[Commandant.]
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES.

Report of Commander Rhind, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Agawam, stating reasons for
his failure to proceed with that vessel in search of the steamer Chesapeake.

PORTSMOUTH, N. H., December 11, 1863.
	SIR: A severe illness obliged me to return home from Portland after
an unsuccessful attempt on 26th ultimo to get the vessel to the navy
yard at this place. On Wednesday, 9th instant, on receipt of the
intelligence of the capture of the steamer Chesapeake, I telegraphed to
First Assistant Engineer Barry, in charge of the Agawam, to know if
she were ready. Yesterday morning I received his reply as follows:
	Work is not quite done, but ship is fit to go to sea.
	Having reported my return home and the cause of it to Rear-Admiral
Gregory, I notified him of my intention to proceed at once to Portland,
though not yet entirely well, as I anticipated orders froni the Depart-
ment. Admiral Gregory informed me that the collector of Portland
had asked permission to take the vessel, and he thought she had gone
to sea. On my arrival here this morning I learned that the Agawam
had sailed.
	I shall report to Captain Pearson, commandant of the navy yard,
and await here the return of the vessel and the orders of the Depart-
ment, proceeding to Portland to morrow to ascertain the movements of
the vessel.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
A.	C. RHIND,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES, Secretary of the Navy.

[Telegram.]

GLOUCESTER, MASS., December 11, 1863.
(Received at Washington 2 p. in.)
	Your telegram is just received. I shall sail immediately.
THOS. T. CRAVEN,
fJommodore.
GIDEON WELLES, Secretary Navy.

Report of Commodore Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Niagara, of delay in receipt
of Departments orders.
U.	S. S. NIAGARA,
At Sea, Lat. 42~ 34 N., Long. 700 30 W., December 11, 1863.
	SIR:	It seems proper that I should inform you that your telegram of
yesterdays date wits i~ot delivered to me rintil after 10 oclock thi

Page 522

522	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

morning, and that almost immediately after it was brought on board,
and before I had commenced reading it, almost every officer of the ship
was made cognizant of its purport by the ~ had it in charge,
Acting Masters Mate Samuel Jessurun.
	Upon sending my clerk to the telegraphic office to acknowledge the
receipt of your order he was told by the operator that your telegram
was received on yesterday. At the same time lie was given to under-
stand that the intended departure and destination of this ship had
been made public at least eighteen hours before sending the dispatch
to me.
	Very respectfully, your obedient servant,	T. CRAVEN,

Commodore, Commanding U. S. S. Niagara.
ion, GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


[Telegram.]

PORTSMOUTH, December 12, 1863.
(Received at Washington 8:30 p. in.)
	The Dacotah will leave in pursuit of the Chesapeake the moment the
pilot cau take her out. Easterly weather, with snow and rain.
		G.	F. PEARSON,
	GIDEON WELLES.		  [Commandant.]

[Telegram.]

PORTSMOUTH, December 14, 18639.30 a. m.
(Received at Washington 12:15 p. in.)
	The Dacotah left at 9:30 Sunday morning.
	G. F. PEARSON,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES.	[Commandant.]


Report of the commandant navy yard, Portsmouth, N. H., of the sailing of the U. S. S.
Dacotah, Commander Clary, U. S. Navy, commanding, in search of the steamer
Chesapeake.

NAVY YARD, PORTSMOUTH, N. II., December 14, 1863.

	SIR:	I have the honor to report that the Daeotah left yesterday
morning at 9:30 in pursuit of the Chesapeake, with orders to search the
coasts in the vicinity of Cape Sable, amid should she find the Chesa-
peake in an English port to demand her of the authorities as an Amer-
ican vessel captured by pirates or other evil-disposed persons. Should
she be captured, Commander Chary was to convey her to the most con-
veni ent port, and in the event of her having gone South he was to
return here. I furnished the Daeotah with some 20 men from the
receiving ship here, including the firemen and coal heavers intended
for the Agawam, in order to make up as well as I could for the defi-
ciency of her crew, amid as the services of her chief engineer could not
be safely dispensed with, in the opinion of Commander Clary and
myself, I retained his detachment and orders until his return here

Page 523

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	523

all of which I trust will meet the approbation of the Department.
Immediately on the reception of a telegram from the deputy collector
of Portland relative to the capture of the Che~peake, I commenced
restowing her; she of course was not cleaned, and therefore on her
return here will need breaking out again and cleaning.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
G.	F. PEARSON,
Commandant.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


[Telegram.]

HALIFAX, December 14, 1863.
(Received 12:25 p. in. December 15.)
	John C. Braine, arrested by vice-consul of Liverpool, showed com-
mission from Jeff Davis letter of marque, and instructions to take the
steamer. Citizens interfered, and Braine is now on his way to Halifax.
Some goods landed at Shelburne put on board steamer Chesapeake near
Margarets Bay. Taking measures to have Braine arrested upon
arrival.
N.	GUNNISON,
Vice- Consul.
	Hon. WM. H. SEWARD,
8ecretary of State.


[Telegram.]

CHARLESTOWN [MASS.], December 15, 1863.
(Received at Washington 12:40 p. in.)
	The prize steamer Cornubia has been in readiness for three days to
go in pursuit of Chesapeake; detained by thick weather. Is it desirable
to send her at so late an hour, or shall she be kept in readinessl
J.	B. MONTGOMERY,
[Comman2ant.]
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 15, 1863.
	Send the Cornubia early as possible. The Chesapeake was off Mar-
garets Bay yesterday.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Commodore J. B. MONTGOMERY,
Commandant of Navy Yard, Boston, Mass.


[Telegram.]

SHELBURNE, NOVA SCoTIA, December 15, 1863.
(Received 3 p. in.)
	A suspicions steamer anchored 2 miles from town on morning of 11th.
Reported at customs [as] steamer Jane, of Wilmington, N. C., boun

Page 524

524	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUiSERSIJNION.

Bermuda via Halifax, with assorted cargo, George Parker. Immedi-
ately telegraphed consul [at] Halifax. No name on her, nor could
obtain farther particulars, although I enquire~ of the natives. Vernon
Locke, late of Retribution, who is a native of Nova Scotia, is, I believe,
in charge. Understand obtained a few tons coal. Morning of 12th
disappeared from harbor. Had not particulars of Chesapeake before
she left. I have no doubt of her identity, although disguised. Last
evening reported still on this coast eastward, discharging cargo into
small vessels.
CORNELIUS WHITE,
U.	S. Consular Agent.
	Hon. WM. H. SEWARD,
Secretary of State.


[Telegram.]

CHARLESTOWN, MASS., December 16, 1863.
(Received at Washington 10:20 a. in.)
	The steamer clornubia has sailed in search of the Chesapeake.
S.	H. STRINGHAM,

Commandant.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES.


[Telegram.]

BOSTON, December 17, 1863.
(Received at Washington 10:30 p. in.)

	I captured the Che8apeake in Sambro this morning. All but three of her crew
escaped. Put prize crew on board. Fell in with the Dacotah wh
me here. Any orders 6? Please telegraph.	, ose captain ordered
	  J. F. NICKELS,
	U. S. S. Ella and Annie.
 The above just received, 6:15 p. in.
	S. H. STRINGHAM.

GIDEON WELLES,
Washington.

[Telegram.]

NEW YORK, December 17, 1863.
(I ~eceived at Washington 5:15 p. in.)
	SIR: The following message was sent at 12 oclock noon to-day from
Sambro, Nova Scotia, to commander of navy yard, Portsmouth:
	The steamer Ella and Annie, Acting LVolunteer] Lieutenant J. F. Nickels, captured
the Che8apeake here this morning, securing three of her crew.
	I have advised his proceeding to Halifax at once, that the authorities may sanc-
tion the seizure.
A. G. CLARY.

	Please inform me if you wish the line kept open after 8 oclock, the
usual hour for closing.
Respectfully,
E.	S. SANFORD,
President American Telegraph Company.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the ATavy

Page 525

OPERATIONS OF	THE CRUISERSUNION. 525
[Telegram.]

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, December 18, 1863.
(Received at Washington 10:30 p. in.)
	Chesapeake transferred to British authorities. Return home at once.
A. 0-. CLARY,
Commander.
	Secretary WELLES.


[Telegram.]

CHARLESTOWN, MASS., December 19, 1863.
(Received at Washington 10 a. in.)
	I received the following telegram last evening from the commander
of steamer Ella and Annie, Halifax:
	I was on my way to Boston when Captain Clary ordered me here. Authorities
have decided to take possession of her.

S.	H. STRINc+IIAM,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
&#38; cretary Navy.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 20, 1863.
	Send all the vessels home and proceed in the Niagara to New York.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy.
	Commodore T. T. CRAVEN,
Commanding U. S. S. Niagara, Halifax, Nova Scotia.


Report of Captain Steedman, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Ticonderoga, of the cruise of
that vessel in search of the steamer Chesapeake.

U. S. S. TICONDEROGA,
Delaware Bay, December 21, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that in obedience to the orders of
Commodore Montgomery to proceed with all dispatch to Pubnico
Harbor in pnrsuit of the steamer Chesapeake, said to be in that neigh-
borhood, I left Boston at 9 oclock a. m. on the 11th instant, the weather
being favorable. At midnight a snowstorm set in, continuing for some
ten hours, which was followed by a dense fog, lasting until midnight
of the 14th.
	On the afternoon of the 13th instant, while steering southeast by
direction of the pilot (and in accordance with the reckoning of the
sailing master), for the purpose of taking me off the land, to my sur-
prise the soundings materially decreased, and every indication was
shown of a near approach to land. Very soomi after the fog for a few
minutes rose and it was discovered some 8 miles distant, which, upon
examination, proved to be the coast of Nova Scotia, in the vicinity of
Yarmouth

Page 526

526	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	This proof of the sailing masters and pilots reckoning being so
much out of the way, and dreading the influences of the strong cur-
rents sweeping into the month of the Bay of Fur~ly, and with nothing
but the lead to gnide me, made me extremely anxious to get an offing.
I therefore kept the ship with her head to the southwest, under steam,
and close-reefed fore and main topsails and trysails.
	On the evening of the 13th instant a strong southeast blow set in,
which gradually veered to the southward and west~Tard, increasing to
a strong gale, with as heavy a sea running as I have ever seen. This
gale continued for over twenty-four hours, when it gradually hauled to
the northward and westward, somewhat moderating, but still strong
and with considerable sea rnnning.
	On the morning of the 16th instant the weather cleared and the
wind began to moderate, and for the first time since leaving Boston
succeeded in getting observations and finding the position of the ship.
	So much time having now beeii lost, and being over some 200 miles
to the southward, with a strong wind from the northward, I became
satisfied that it was useless to proceed to Pubnico in pursuit of the
Chesapeake, as there was hardly any probability of her remaining there
or in that neighborhood for so long a time. I therefore decided upon
carrying out the instructions of the Department as contained in my
orders of the 7th instant.
	With this object in view I stood to the southward under moderate
steam, in order to get into more moderate weather to try the sailing
qualities of the vessel, the result of which will form the subject of
another report.
I am, ~ir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GRAS. STEEDMAN,
Captain.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.


Report of the commandant navy yard, Doston, Mass., of the arrival of the U. S. S. Malvern
at that station.

COMMANDANTS OFFICE, U. S. NAVY YARD,
Boston, December 22, 18G3.
	SIR: I have the honor to state that the U. S. S. Malvern, (late Ella
and Annie) arrived at this yard this day at 9 oclock a. m.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
ALFRED TAYLOR,
For Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Acting Volunteer Lieutenant Nickels, U. S. Navy, commanding U. 5. 5. Ella and
Annie, of the seizure by that vessel of the steamer Chesapeake, in Sambro Harbor, Nova
Scotia.
U.	S. S. ELLA AND ANNIE,
Boston, December 22, 1863.
	SIR: In accordance with Commodore Montgomerys orders of the
9th instant to proceed to sea and cruise in search of the pirate 6~hesa-
peake, we got underway at 1 :40 p. m. on the 10th instant and pro

Page 527

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	527

ceeded to sea; arrived at Eastport, Me., on the 12th instant at 9 a. m.
(having encountered head winds and thick weather), and left on the
same day at 110 a  in., with news that the (ihesareake was in Margarets
Bay, Nova Scotia. Arrived off Cross Island (entrance to Margarets
Bay) at 0 p. in. on the 13th, the weather being so thick we conld not
enter. We attempted to lay in sight of the light, but thick weather
coming on, and a heavy blow from the southward, we could not make
the land until 2 p. m. on the 15th, and to the eastward of our port.
Finding it impossible to get into Margarets Bay, and the ship being so
light that we could do but little in the gale that was blowing, our coal
being nearly exhausted, we ran iuito Halifax and alongside the coal
wharf at 5:30 p. m. and left at 111 p. m. (having taken in 136 tons of
coal) for Le Have, where the Chesapcake was then reported to be. All
this night a heavy gale was blowing from the westward; difficnlt to get
to the windward, but arrived at Le Have on the 16th instant at 3 p. in.,
and found the pirate had left that place the night before and from the
mouth of the river that morning. We then got news that she was in
Lunenburg, 25 miles distant, and immediately started for that port,
where we arrived at 6:30 p. m. Telegraphed at once to Halifax for
news of her whereabouts, which we received, stating that the Chesa-
peake entered Mud Cove, Sambro Harbor, that evening. I immediately
got underway and ran down to the mouth of the harbor, where we
remained, being unable to find a pilot to take us into the harbor before
daylight, when we steamed in under fill steam, hoping to catch the
pirates asleep. At 7:20 a. in. made her out with a schooner alongside
coaling her. We immediately cleared for action, putting all the guns on
the starboardside, the side we wished to board from, as we had heard
she mounted two guns. At 7:50 a. in. laid our ship alongside, striking
her, but not heavily, on the port bow; boarded her but found that all
the pirates had escaped except two, which had been shipped in the
provinces. We immediately commenced coaling her from this ship,
also putting stores and a prize crew on board.
	We then sent an armed boats crew on board the schooner which had
been coaling the Chesapeake preparatory to leaving, and found several
trunks and packages which the captain of the schooner acknowledged
to have been taken out of the Chesapeake, and also one of the original
17 men who captured the steamer off Cape Cod, and whom we found
secreted in the cabin under buffaloes. We took the packages and
trunks on board the Chesapeake, trans f~rring the pirate, together with
the other two found on board the pirate, to the Ella and Annie and
placed [themi in double irons. I neglected to say that when near the
prize the American ensign was hoisted, union down, by the engineer and
five of the original crew (held as prisoners by the pirate) soon after the
pirates had left her in boats.
	At 1 p. in. finished coaling ship, and put Acting Master William
MGloin in charge of the prize, with written orders to proceed to
Boston and report to the commandant of the navy yard.
	Immediately got underway with prize alongside and steamed out of the
cove. At the mouth of Sambro Harbor fell in with the U. S. sloop of
war Dacotah, Captain Chary, who. hailed us and asked us if that was
the Chesapeake. I replied in the affirmative. He then asked, Where
do you proceed with your prize ~ I replied, To Boston. He then
asked, Did you catch the pirates 6?~~ I replied I had but three. He
then told me to repair on board. I went on board, where he ordered
me to proceed to Halifax with the prize for adjudication, at which place
we arrived and dropped anchor at 3:45 p. m. I immediately tele.
graphed to Commodore Montgomery of my arrival and my capture

Page 528

528	OPERATIONS OF THE CRTTISERStYNION.

	The matter now remained in Captain Clarys hands, who, on the
morning of the 19th instant, ordered me to transfer the prisoners to the
cnstody of the British officers and turn th~ prize over to the British
authorities. Accordingly, at 1 p. in., I sent Ensign Coghian with the
three prisoners to Queens wharf, and there delivered them to the Brit-
ish authorities appointed to receive them. At 2 p. m. transferred the
prize to the British authorities, Captain OBrien, of the revenue service,
taking charge of her. At 4 p. m. the Dacotah made signals for us to
sail. I immediately visited the general commanding that post, and
made an apology for iiot calling on my first entrance into that port, and
sailed at 6:30 p. in. for Boston, where we arrived this day.
	Before closing, I would call your attention to the noble conduct of all
my officers, all of whom volunteered for this service, some of whom
had just returned from a two years cruise and had not at this time
seen their families or had leave of absence, being attached to the San-
tiago de Cuba; the others attached to the vessels nowrefitting in Boston,
and enjoying a few days in port. All were ready for any duty or emer-
gency an(l seconded me in anything I proposed, and underwent the
hardships of a cold and stormy cruise cheerfully. Enclosed please find
a list of the officers, showing the duty they were upon when ordered to
this ship.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	F. NICKELS,
Acting Volunteer Lieutenant, U. S. Navy.
	Admiral S. II. STRINGHAM,
Vommandant Navy Yard, Charlestown [Mass.].


Letter from the commandant navy yard, Portsmouth, N. H., to the Secretary of the Navy,
transmitting report of Commander Clary, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Dacotah, with
correspondence relating to the case of the steamer Chesapeake.

NAVY YARD, PORTSMOUTH, N. II.,
December 23, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to forward herewith Commander Clary~s report
tomerelative to thelate cruise of theDacotahin pursuit of the Chesapeake,
and accompanied by his correspondence with the British authorities.
I am, most respectfully, your obedient servant,
G.	F. PEARSON,
Commandant.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

	P. S.The Niagara, Captain Craven, was to leave Halifax [Nova
Scotia], the 21st instant for New York.
G.	F. PEARSON.

[Enclosuree.]

U.	S. GUNBOAT DACOTAH,
Halifax, Nova Scotia, December 18, 1863.
	SIR:	In obedience to your orders of the 11th instant, used all possible
dispatch and got to sea the 12th instant, steaming eastward in pur-
suit of the pirate Chesapeake, meeting heavy, stormy weather the first
two days, retarding us very much. On the 14th instant spoke the
American ship Argo, from St. John, New Brunswick, they reportin

Page 529

OPE~ATJOI~S OP THE ~RtT1SERStINION.	529

the Chesapeake left St. John the 9th instant, going east. This, and
the telegraphs prior to our sailing, induced me to push on for Shelburne,
Nova Scotia. Reached there on the 15th to learn that the Chesapeake
(now named the Jane, of Wilmington [N. C.]~) had discharged a
schooner load of her cargo and sold it to parties on shore there and left
on the 12th instant. At this place I telegraphed to Yarmouth [Nova
Scotia], Liverpool [Nova Scotia], and Halifax, and it was not till the
following morning at 11 I received their answers, to this effect: That
the Chesapeake was in Le Have (or was on the 15th), some 60 miles to
the eastward. Steamed np for this port, reaching there about 5 p. m.
(the 16th). Here again she had only left that morning early, but by
enquiring at the outer light-house, ascertained she was still going east.
I could do nothing that night, nor could the chase, as she had no fuel.
The following morning at daylight (17th) got underway, going east,
looking into all the bays and inlets. At 10 made out two steamers in
the harbor of Sambro [Nova Scotia], steamed iii to find the Chesapeake
in possession of the U. S. S. Ella and Annie, Acting Lieutenant J. F.
Nickels. in an interview with this officer advised him to proceed at
once to Halifax, that steps might be taken to legalize the capture.
	Arrived at Halifax in company with the Ella and Annie and prize
steamer Chesapeake at 4 p. m. 17th instant, immediately communicating
with the U. S. consul and the provimicial authorities, forwarding them
Acting Lieutenant Nickelss report of the capture of the Chesapeake,
telegraphing to you, sir, the result of our cruise.
	This morning (December 18) received a telegram from the hommorable
Secretary of the Navy (dated the 17th) to the effect to transfer the
Chesapeake ever to the provincial authorities here. The U. S. consul
has now called upon the authoritics to arrest the pirate crew.
	Here I wish to state that immediately upon our anchoring (late p. in.)
the first lieutenant of this ship was directed to call upon the American
consul and accompany him to visit his honor the provincial secretary
for the provinces, etc., but time consul being occupied by our several
arrivals, some considerable delay occurred before the official visit was
made, though was not aware of it till receiving the accompanying com-
munication (marked A). The reply, you will perceive, contains also
the statement of the capture of the Chesapeake by Acting Lieutenant
J. F. Nickels, made in the presence of the U. S. consul and myself; and
signed by me.
	Consistent with the correspondence with his honor the provincial
secretary of the British Government(and marked B), I directed the
transfer of the steamboat Chesapeake and prisoners to the colonial
authorities the 19th instant. I regret to add that during this ren-
dition of the prisoners one was suffered to escape after being landed
from the boat. This I have upon the testimony of Surgeon Bloodgood,
of this ship. The man, Locke or Parker (his true name, and recognized
by our pilot as Vernon Locke, and has or had property in Beverly,
Mass.).
	No further correspondence ensued (conducted by the vice-consul and
consul for the United States). Took my leave of his honor the provin-
cial secretary, and left the port of Halifax this day (19th) for Ports-
mouth, N. H., touching at Shelburne to land the pilot.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
A. G. CLARY,
Commander, U. ~. Navy.
	Commodore GEo. F. PEARSON,
	U.	S. Navy Yard, Portsmouth, N H.
	N W RVOL 11	3

Page 530

	530	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
		               A.
	PROVINCIAL SECRETARYS OFFICE,
Halifax, Nova Scotia, #)ecernber 17, 1863.
	SIR: Three war steamers bearing the flag of the United States
having arrived here, and no officer belonging to either of them having
reported himself to the administrator of the government or the officer
in command of the troops in the garrison, I have it in command from
his honor the administrator of the government to enquire the names of
the ships under your command, the object of your visit to this port,
and the circumstances under which the steamship Chesapeake has been
this day taken out of the harbor of Sambro, a IN ova Scotian port, and
brought into this harbor by men-of-war belonging to the Navy of the
United States.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
CHARLES TUPPER,
Provincial Secretary.
To the OFFICER IN COMMAND OF THE UNITED STATES SHIPS OF
WAR AT THE PORT OF HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA.


A.
U.	S. GUNBOAT DACOTAH,
Halifax, Nova Scotia, 1)ecember 17, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your coinmuni-
cation of this date, and in reply beg to state that I had no intention of
not conforming to all the proprieties and usages required in British
ports, and have taken the opportunity of personally stating this to his
honor the administrator of the government in an interview held with
him this evening.
	As for the reasons demanded in your note of our entering the liar-
bor of Halifax, [I] answer, for the purpose of delivering the steamboat
Chesapeake into the hands of the British authorities if they should feel
disposed to receive her, or to take her to the United States and deliver
her to the United States or to the owners upon the faith (if any diffi-
culty should arise) to make restitution to the British authorities.
	With reference to the circumstances under which the steamboat
Chesapeakewas taken out of theharborof Sambro, [they] are simply these:
At 7 oclock this morning a flag of distress of the United States was
seen flying by the crew of the U. S. gunboat Ella and Annie, under the
command of Acting Lieutenant J. F. Nickels, the Ella and Annie steam-
ing into Sambro in order to grant relief to such signal from a vessel
purporting to belong to the United States. When Acting Lieutenant
Nickels reached the distressed [vessel] he found her to be the steam-
boat Chesapeake, in possession and control of five of her original crew,
by whom he was informed that the pirates had abandoned her and that
the Chesapeake was without fad. Under the circumstances of the case I
thought it prudent to put into the port of Halifax for the purpose of
putting myself in commui~ication with the British authorities and the
U. S. Government.
	I have, in conclusion, to state the names of the ships of war under
my control: The U. S. S. Dacotah and U. S. S. Ella and Annie.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
A. G. CLARY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
	Hon. CHAS. TUPPER,
Provincial Secretary, Halifax, Nova Scotia

Page 531

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	531

B.

PROVINCIAL SECRETART(S OFFICE,
llabfax, Nova &#38; otia, December 18, 1863.
	SIR:	I am commanded by his honor the administrator of the govern-
ment to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of yesterday, explaining
the object of your visit to be for the purpose of delivering the steam-
boat Chesapeake into the hands of the British authorities or to take her
to the United States and deliver her to the U. S. Government or to the
owners, upon the faith (if any difficulty should arise) to make restitu-
tion to the British authorities, and in reply, I have it in command to
inform you that his honor is prepared to take legal charge of the steam-
boat Chesapeake, but can not consent to her removal from this port until
further investigation by properly constituted authorities.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
CHARLES TUPPER,
Provincial &#38; cretary.
A.	G. CLARY, Esq.,
Commander, U. S. Navy.


B.

PROVINCIAL SECRETARYS OFFICE,
halifax, December 18, 1863.
	SIR:	I hav~ it in command from his honor the administrator of the
government to inform you that, information having been given that
prisoners have been made of individuals in the harbor of Sambro, a
Nova Scotia port, by men-of-war under your command, his honor can not
permit any vessel in the service of the U. S. Government to leave this
port until due investigation has been made into the allegation of this
violation of international law.
I have the honor to be, sir, your very obedient servant,
CHARLES TUPPER,
Provincial Secretary.
A.	G. CLARY, Esq.,
Commander, U. S. Navy.


B.

U.	S. GUNBOAT DACOTAII,
Halifax, Nova Scotia, December 18, 1863.
	SIR:	I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of
this day, and in reply have to state that I shall immediately hand over
the steamer Chesapeake to the authorities directed by his honor the
administrator of the government to receive her so soon as I have sig-
nified to me the authorities appointed to receive her and the time and
place, together with one of the pirates named, George Wade, who was
concerned in the illegal seizure (and who was taken out of a schooner
which was attempting to coal the Chesapeake and was found wrapped
up in a buffalo robe) of the steamer Chesapeake from two citizens of the
United States, on the 7th instant, and who has been identified as a
pirate by the witnesses who arrived here in the U. S. gunboat Acacia
from the United States this morning, also two men found on board the
steamer Chesapeake when she was delivered to the officer in comman

Page 532

532	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

of the Ella and Annie, and who were identified by the party who deliv-
ered the steamer to the said officer as being in the employ of the
pirates.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
A. G. CLARY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
	Hon. CHAS. TUPPER,
Provincial Secretary, Halifax, Nova Scotia.


B.

U.	S. GUNBOAT DACOTAH,
Hal~fax, Nova Scotie, December 18, 1863.
	SIR: Upoii closing my reply to your first communication of this day
by command of his honor the administrator of the government, I
therein proposed the immediate delivery of the steamboat Chesapeake,
and also the rendition to the proper authorities of certain persons who
had been taken under circumstances mentioned.
	Your second communication by command of his honor the adminis.
trator of the government I beg to acknowledge, in which you state
that information having been given that prisoners have been made of
individuals in the harbor of Sambro, Nova Scotia, by men-of-war under
your command, his honor can not permit any vessel in the service of
the U. S. Government to leave this port until due investigation has
been made into the allegation of this violation of international law.
	I beg to refer you to my first communication of to-day.
	I shall be glad to learn, after the explanation given and the offered
rendition of persons termed prisoners in your note, whether it is con-
sistent with the friendly relations existing between the British and
U. S. Governments that the ships of war of the United States having
come into the port of a neutral power for a purpose previously cx-
l)lained, and now offering to render up to the proper authorities per-
sous termed prisoners, should be detained if the officers thereof should
wish to depart to report themselves to their own Government.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,

A. G. CLARY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. CHAS. TUPPER,
Provincial Secretary, Halifax, Nova Scotia.


B.

PROVINCIAL SECRETARYS OFFICE,
Halifax, Nova Scotia, December 18, 1863.
	SIR: In reply to your letters of this date, I have it in command from
his honor the administrator of the government to inform you that
J. J. Lawyer, esq., high sheriff of the county of Halifax, has been com-
missioned to receive at the Queens wharf at 1 oclock p. in. to-morrow,
George Wade and the two other men referred to in your first letter of
to day, with any other persons, if such there be now in your custody,
who may have beemi taken within British jurisdiction, when the indi-
viduals so surrendered will be amenable to th~ action of any person
desirous to proceed legally against them

Page 533

OPERATIONS O~ rilE cRuISIRSUNION.

	I have it also in command to inform you that Captain OBrien, of the
revenue schooner Daring, has been duly authorized to receive posses-
sion of the steamboat Chesapeake at the place where she is now at anchor,
at 2 oclock p. m. to-morrow, to be adjudicated uponbyproper anthority.
	I am at the same time commanded to inform you that his honor
Major-General Doyle, the administrator of the government, is most
anxious to preserve to the utmost of his power the friendly relations
existing between the United States and Great Britain, but he can not
hut feel that a grave infraction of international law has been committed
by the men-of-war now in this harbor bearing the flag of the United
S rates. Irrespective altogether of the taking of the Chesapeake in the
harbor of Sambro, a forcible entry has been made on board a British
schooner belonging to this port, and a man therein made prisoner and
retained in your custody, together with two other men, citizens of this
place, who were found on board the Chesapeake, and this without any
report of such grave transactions having been made either in your
personal interview with or your first official report in writing to his
honor professing to explain the object and circumstances of your visit
to this port, nor until after a notification had been forwarded to you by
his honors command that information to that effect had been given to
this Government. It is unnecessary to state that the second letter
addressed to you to-day was written and forwarded before the receipt
of any intimation from you that you had in your custody or intended
to surrender any prisoners.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
CHARLES TuPPER,
Provincial Secretary.
	[A. G. CLARY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.]


B.

U.	S. GUNBOAT D&#38; COTAH,
Halifax, Nova Scotia, December 19, 1863.
	SIR: I beg leave to acknowledge the receipt of your communication
of the 18th instant, and hasten to answer so much of it as relates to the
forcible entry on board a British schooner, in a British port, and a
man therein made prisoner,~~ etc., by informing his honor the adminis-
trator of the government that niy first conimunication alluded to in
your note was written and enclosed before yours was received. Also
that at the time of my personal interview with his honor the adminis-
trator the facts connected with the schooner were unknown to me, also
to the vice-consul for the United States.
	I beg to enclose you a copy of a correspondence between Lord Lyons
and the Secretary of State, William II. Seward, and of which I presume
his honor the administrator of the government is already fully apprised,
and by me received this day, which perhaps may alter the determina-
tion of his honor the administrator of the government respecting the
steamboat Chesapeake.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
A. G. CLARY,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
	Hon. CnAs. TUPPER,
Provincial Secretary, Halifax, Nova Scotia

Page 534

534	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNiON.

HALIFAX, December 19, 1863.
	Sn~: I am charged by Major-General Doyle, the administrator of the
government, to acknowledge the receipt of y~ur letter of to-day,
together with copy of correspondence between Lord Lyons and the hon-
orable W. H. Seward, Secretary of State in the United States, and 1 am
directed by his honor the administrator to say in reply that he is glad
to be informed that your first communication of yesterday was written
and enclosed before the receipt by you of my second letter of yesterday,
and I am further commanded to inform you that his honor does not see
any cause to alter his determination communicated to you last evening
respecting the disposal of the Chesapeake and the prisoners now in your
keeping.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
	Commander CLARY,	CHARLES TUPPER.
Of United States Gunboat.


Report of Commodore Craven, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Niagara, of the arrival of
that vessel at New York from cruise in search of the steamer Chesapeake.


U. S. S. NIAGARA,
New York, December 23, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of the Niagara at New
York, seventy-four hours from Halifax, Nova Scotia.
	In pursuaiice to your telegraphic order of the 10th instant, received
at Gloucester, Mass., after 11 oclock on the morning of the 11th instant,
the ship was unmoored, our accounts closed, a pilot obtained, and at 1
p. m. we sailed in search of the Chesapeake.
	Owing to easterly winds, a head sea, and heavy fogs we were unable
to reach Pubnico before the afternoon of the 13th, thereafter coin-
municating with the shore, and learning nothing of the whereabouts
of the object of our visit, we were detained riding out a gale on a lee
shore until the morning of the 17th instant. On that morning the gale
abated, and communicating again with the shore learned that a steamer
answering the description of the Chesapeake had passed by Yarmouth
on the 12th instant, steering to the southward, and that on the same
day she had entered the harbor of Shelburne, shipped four men, got
on board 4 chaldrons of coals, and sailed the same day, steaming to
the eastward. We also learned by a telegraphic dispatch that she was
on the 17th instant at Le Have, blockaded by one of the gunboats.
	I immediately got underway, and at 5:15 a. m. of the 18th instant,
in a blinding snowstorm, found my way in and anchored at the month
of Le Have River. Sent Acting Master F. M. Green to the light-house
on Ironbound Island, where he was informed by the light keeper that
the Chesapeake had left the river on the morning of the 16th instant,
followed the next day by a gunboat, both steering to the eastward.
	Not feeling satisfied as to the truthfulness of this information I
delayed moving, intending to send boats in search of her up the river,
but a gale coming on from the southeast I was compelled to let go a
second anchor and start the engines to prevent being blown ashore.
On the following morning during a lnll sent Mr. Green again to the
light-house, and finding that other parties corroborated the information
of the previous day we hove up the anchors (finding one of them minus a
stock) and started for Halifax, where we arrived at 1 p. m. on Saturday

Page 535

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	535

the 19th instant, and were pleased to find the object of our search, in
company with the U. S. sloop Dacotah, the gun
nubia, and the steamer Ella and Annie.	beats Acacia and Cor-
Being severely fatigned and unwell, I sent an officer to call upon the
mayor of the city to state the object of our visit and to apologize for
my not calling in person.
	In the meantime Captain Clary, of the Dacotah, called on board and
informed me that the Chesapeake had beeu recaptured by the steamer
Ella and Annie on the morning of the 18th instant in Sambro Harbor,
that she had been turned over to the authorities on shore, and that
everything was in a fair way oC being satisfactorily adjusted. By the
same officer whom I sent to call npon the mayor I sent to the U. S. con-
sul informing him of my arrival and tendering him the use of a boat to
visit the ship, but that gentleman found himself too much overwhelmed
in a diplomatic controversy with the mayor to leave his office, and wxote
a note requesting my immediate presence at the consulate. Waiving
	etiquette,	suffering	want
all	and	for the	of rest I visited the consulate,
only to learn that there was some little hesitancy on the partof the author-
ities to arrest one Wade, who had been forcibly rescued from the hands
of our officers as they were about turning him over to officers appointed
by the mayor to receive the few prisoners who were taken with the Chesa-
peake. Fortunately, while at the consulate Major-General C. Hastings
Doyle, the provincial governor, drove up to the door. I was introduced
to him, and am happy to state that before I took leave of him he had
promised to order the arrest of the entire piratical crew. After an
exchange oP salutes and a nights rest in the quiet harbor of Halifax,
at sunrise of the 20th instant we sailed for this harbor.
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant,
THOS. T. CRAVEN,
Commodore, Commanding U. S. S. iViagara.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Testimony of Captain Willett, commander of the steamer Chesapeake, before the police magis-
trate, 8t. John, New Brunswick, in the examination of persons accused of seizing that vessel.


	Captain Isaac Willett, sworn:
	Am a citizen of the United States; live in Brooklyn; a seaman for
thirty years. Know the Chesapeake, owned by H. B. Cromwell, also a
citizen of the United States. Was master of her in December, and had
been for seventeen months. She was rebuilt in New York about three
years ago. Previous to that she was called the fJiotten.
	(Mr. Wetmore asked where she was registered. Both Messrs. Gray
and Weldon jumped to their feet and objected to the question. The
magistrate agreed with them.)
	During these seventeen months the vessel plied between New York
and Portland ; she had a coasting license.
	(Mr. Gray objected to any evidence respecting contents of this license.
Objection sustained.)
	He had the paper until it was taken away from him on board the ship.
On the 4th and 5th of December 11 had charge of the Chesapeake, themi
lying in North River taking in cargo for Portland.. Most of the freight
was taken in on the 5th, Saturday. She carried passengers also. I saw
these three prisoners on board on the trip in question; saw them firs

Page 536

536	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.

about supper time, about 0 oclock in the evening. We left New York
ou the 5th December. I was in the wheelhouse wken the vessel left the
wharf. They did not buy tickets; paid their money on board. I
identify Collins and recognize the others. I wrote their names on a
piece of paper and gave it to the stewardess to arrange rooms for them.
	(Wetmore asked the names of the other persons on board. Gray
objected. Objection overruled.)
	There was a person who called himself John C. Braine; said lie was
a colonel. Understood there was a person named Brooks. Dont rec-
ollect the names of Seeley and Clifford. All the passengers paid their
passage except two. We proceed direct to Portland from New York;
do not call. The vessel, a propeller, was worth from $60,000 to $70,000.
There was an assorted cargoflour, sugar, wine, and such like. Do
not recollect the owners. Do not know its value; probably $80,000 or
$100,000.
	There was no disturbance until Monday morning, 8th [7th]. We were
then about 20 miles N. N. E. of Cape Cod. Cape Cod is in the United
States. About a quarter past 1 in the morning, the first thing I knew,
the chief mate, Charles Johnson, caine to my room and called me, say-
ing somebody had shot the second engineer, Owen Shaffer. I turned
out of my room and went to see how badly he was shot, and had hardly
time to get out of my room before I was shot at. I was at the engine
room door, on the upper deck, where my room was. I found the body
of the second engineer lying on the deck; its more than I could tell
whether he was alive or dead; he appeared to be dead. I was in the
act of stoophig down to raise him up when I was shot at twice. I
then walked forward and was shot at again, I supposed to be from a
pistol. Next day I saw two places in the floor where pistol balls
had gone through right by where I was. I cant tell who shot at me.
I only saw two persons then. I can not identify either of these prisoners
as the parties. I saw no marks of violence on the engineer, but I saw
marks of blood where his head lay. When I walked forward I was
going into the pilot house, when I was collared and a pistol was put to
my face by First Lieutenant II. A. Parr, who was in the pilot house.
He collared me and said I was his prisoner, in the name of the Southern
Confederacy. Parr put the irons on me; two or three others stood beside
him; they seemed to be standing there doing nothing. He put hand-
cuffs on each wrist; the irons could be made small or large. They put
me into my own room; I could have come out when II pleased; no use
for them to lock the door. I dont know what became of the body of
the chief mate~ except what I heard from the others. I was confined
an hour, when Parr and Sailing Master Robinson came to me; they
didnt say much, but took me into the cabin; there I saw some of the
other passengers who were not concerned in the affair. While I was
here the chief mate, Charles Johnson, and chief engineer, James John-
son, were brought in wounded; I had heard reports of firearms. The
mate was wounded in the right knee and left arm; the wounds appeared
to be made by pistol shots; I saw the leaden ball taken out of the
mates arm; he suffered considerably from the knee; not so much from
the arm; Lieutenant Parr took the ball out of the arm. The chief
engineer was wounded by a bullet in the hollow of the chin. Parr said
he would get the balls out of them if he could, and fix the wounds.
The chief mate laid on a lounge until he was put on board the pilot
boat. I remained in the aftercabin until 8 next morning. The irons
were then taken off, and Robinson went up to my room on deck with
me. I was in the room a few minutes and returned to the cabin.
When on deck I saw Collins iind Seeley there; Seeley was scrubbin

Page 537

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	537

brass on one of the timber heads; the others did not appear to be
doing anything in particular. Colonel John C. B~iiie took my ships
papers from me in the afternoon before I was landed in the pilot boat.
Braine seemed to have command of the vessel; she was taken from me
by these parties against my will and consent. I saw McKinney on
board the vessel; they seemed to be about the vessel, and appeared to
be eating the grub up as fast as possible. Dont recollect of seeing
McKinney doing anything. The person who was navigating the ves-
sel was named Robert Osburn, a ~)assenger, oiie of the six who bought
tickets in New York. None of the parties named in the indictment
had tickets. The first land we made after they took possession was
Mount Desert. I asked them where they were going; they said Grand
Manan. I asked where they intended to land me; they said St. John.
Mount Desert is on the American coast, east of Portland. I would
not see it if I were prosecuting a voyage from New York to Portland.
Alter passing Mount Desert we saw land east of that place. We pro-
ceeded to Seal Cove Harbor~ Grand Manan. The boat was lowered,
three or four men went ashore, remained a little while, and came on
board again, when the steamer left and came up the bay to St. John.
Next I was taken up to my room by Bi-aine and Parr. Parr made a
copy of Braines instructions, and Braine gave it to me. He ordered
me to give up the coasting license, the permits for the cargo, and the
money I had collected from Braine for his party, in all $87. He asked
for the money he had paid over to me; it was my employers. I knew
it would be worse for me if I did not. I handed it over against my
will. Brain~ had a pistol iii his hand at the time. I handed money,
ships papers, and permits to him. The papers were the ships coasting
license from the New York custom-house, under which she was coast-
ing at the time, as required under the American law. After this they
took me away from the room and took me aft (Braine and Parr), and
ordered me to stay there. We theii saw a pilot boat. We were on our
way to St. John. The pilot boat ordered us to stop; some one came
on board the steamer from her, stayed a few minutes, and returited.
Then Captain John Parker came on board and apparently tookcoininand.
They then took the pilot boat in tow and steamed up to Dipper Harbor.
All of the passengers and crew, except two engineers (James Johnson
and Auguste Striebeck), and three firemen (Patrick Conner was one),
were put on board the pilot boat. The firemen and engineers were kept
against their will. Those who went on board the pilot boat were myself,
Charles Johnson (chief mate), Daniel Henderson, three boys and four
sailors (whose names I do not recollect), the stewardess, and five pas-
sengers. One of the passengers belongs some 30 miles back of St.
John ;. the other four belonged to Maine. These five passengers had
tickets. Robert Osburn remained on board the Che8ajpeake; he also
had a ticket. The steamer towed the boat some 5 or 7 miles, and let
go of us; we were put on board the boat about 5 in the evening. That
was the last we saw of the steamer. I landed in St. John about 4 on
Wednesday morning. I got a boat from a big ship near Partridge
Island and came to town with four of my men and two passengers.
From the way the parties acted on my steamer I was afraid of my life.
Everything was taken against my will. I saw one or two of these pris-
oners on watch; they were on deck. I supposed they were on watch;
they seemed to be acting as other men would who were on watch.
Braines party assisted him in charge of the vessel. As far as I know,
these men were assisting him. I did not see them making sail or shovel-
ing coal. I dont recollect of seeing Collins or McKinney doing any-
thing except being on deck

Page 538

538	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Cross-examined by Mr. GRAY:
	I dont deny there has been war in my country for two or three years
between those calling themselves Confederate States and the so-called
United States.
	(Mr. Wetmore objected to this as an improper way of proving a
state of war. The magistrate did not think this evidence could be
shut out.)
	I cant remember how many States are called the Confederate States
Virginia, North Carolina, South C Georgia, Alabama, Missis-
sippi (about one-third of the latter). Abraham Lincoln is President
cf the United States and Jeff Davis President of the Confederate
States. I never heard of Mr. Benjamin, Confederate Secretary of War.
I have heard them say they have a Government. I have read Lincolns
proclamations of war against the South, orderiiig them to destroy the
property of the South, but I do not recollect its contents. I never took
notice of it to
	(Here the witness was stopped.)
	Parr did put a pistol to my head in the pilot house, and said he took
me prisoner in the name of the Southern Confederacy. They put the
irons on me rather hard. They did not say anything about taking the
vessel in the name of the Confederate States then. After they took
the handcuffs off there was always a guard with me when I went about.
1 did not see any act of violence toward the passengers after the cap.
ture of the vessel. The handcuffs were also removed from the officers.
I left a copy of the instructions which Braine left with me in New
York.
	(Mr. Gray asked the captaiii the substance of these instructions.
Mr. Wetmore objected. Mr. Gray argued the point, and then read
from manuscript a copy of Captain Parkers order to Braine, which
Captain Willett had published in the New York Herald and other
papers, and asked the captain if the copy was correct. The witness
said it was nearly correct. The name of the sailing master in the copy
handed him by Braine was George Robinson, not Tom Sayers; the
name of the engineer was not given in it, and the imumber of the men
stated was 11, not 22. In other respects Mr. Grays copy was correct.)
	The Confederates kept of my private property one double-barreled
gun, one single-barreled gun, five five-barreled revolvers, and one six-
barreled revolver. I (lid not come out of my room in what they call
my shirt tail. They kept me aft and plundered my room. They
took three coats. I missed them when 1 comnmence(l to pack up. I
brought ashore my clock, eight charts, sextammt, and three books. The
passengers also brought ashore their own things. I did not see Braine
give the passengers money to take them bavk to New York. The crew
brought part of their things ashore. They put us into the pilot boat
6 or 7 miles this side of I)ipper Harbor. I did imot see and do not know
that tlme Confederate flag was raised over the vessel. They fired two
shots at me, and I dont know how many more. Time first two shots
were fired at 12 feet. They must have been bad shots. The Chesapeake
had two 6-pounders forward, and of amnmuni tiomi half a keg of powder;
no cutlasses. The Confederates who cut out the Caleb Gushing at Port-
land were- sent to Fort Warren; I have heard so. The Chesapeake was
engaged in retaking the Caleb Gushing. I saw the Confederates who
were then taken; they were sent to Fort Preble. I do not know that
those Confederates were ever tried as pirates, or in any other way.
Only Lieutenant Parr told us that their party was acting for the Con-
federate States. They all seemed to be working together and wer

Page 539

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	539

working under Parr and Braine. I was Hot at Sambro, and did not
see the steamer after I got into the pilot boat. None of my crew, to
my knowledge, were kept in irons the next dayNuie day after the cap-
ture. I never saw or heard of Braine or Parr before.

Reexamined by Mr. WETMORE:
	I have heard the Confederates called rebels in the Northern States
generally. The Galeb Gushing was lying at a wharf in Portland Har.
bor when captured. Braine was called colonel. The parties all seemed
to be working together. I can not tell whether Braine paid the passage
of these three men, the prisoners.
	(Both sides having exhausted the evidence of the captain, the case
was adjourned until Wednesday morning.)



Confederate correspondence concerning the Chesapeake affair.

Letter from Win. H. Turlinglon, Esq., St. John, New Brunswick, to Eon. Geo. Davis,*
giving detailed statement regarding the capture of the steamer Chesapeake.

ST. JOHN, NEW BRUNSWICK, January 4, 1864.

	IDEAII SIR: You have no doubt heard before this of the capture of
the American steamer Chesapeake, while on the way from New York to
Portland, by a party of Confederates under John C. Braine.
	As I happen to know some of the parties engaged in the affair I have
been requested to do whatever I can to get the matter before the Con-
federate Government. With this view I will m ike brief statement of the
facts, so you will please bring the matter before the proper authorities.
	Captain John Parker, formerly of the privateer Retribution, arrived
in this place early in November, and found here Braine and some other
Southerners, who were anxious to make a raid on the Yankee commerce.
They made up a party of about 20 persons, and left for New York under
command of Braine, as lieutenant commanding, early iu December.
Some of the party were left behind, which left 12 or 14 all told who took
passage in the Chesapeake at New York, Saturday, 5th December, and
between 1 and 2 oclock Monday morning, when about 20 miles off Cape
Cod, they took possession of the steamer in name of the Confederate
States. Little resistance was offered by any of the crew, except the
second engineer, who tired at them tljree times, wounding one of the
party in the left hand. He was then shot, which proved fatal, the body
afterwards being buried at sea. Other shots were fired, but more to
intimidate the crew than anything else. The mate was slightly wounded
in the arm. This was caused from the fact of his attempt to run when
ordered to surrender. The boat was then brought into Bay of Fundy
Tuesday night, where and when Captain Parker was taken on board
and at once assumed command, and the passengers and crew set ashore
in a St. John pilot boat same night. It was the intention of the party
to run direct for Wilmington, but for want of coal they put into Shel-
burne, Nova Scotia, where they remained during severe gale, after which
they ran up for Sambro, a small harbor near entrance to Halifax, where
they took in some coals from a vessel. Early next morning, being
Wednesday, 15th, the Yankee gunboat Ella and Annie eutered the
harbor and took possession of the Chesapeake. When the Confederates
saw the Yankees coming in they took to their boats and went ashore,
leaving on board only some mcmi whom they employed at Shelburne and
*Afterwards Attorney-General of the Confederate States

Page 540

540
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
the Yankee engineers, first and third, and firemen, who had been kept
to work the boat. The men employed, as well as one of the original
party who happened to be on board vessel at time, were taken prisoners
and put in irons.
	The Yankee took Chesapeake in tow and started for American port,
but was met by another gunboat, whose commander, being a superior
officer, ordered her into Halifax, where they made report to the Nova
Scotia government, omitting to mention the prisoners. This soon
became known to General l)oyle, who is at present acting as governor,
and who at once demanded their release, which was not complied with
till the fleet were notified that no American man-of-war would be allowed
to leave the port. At the same time he ordered the forts and batteries
to be prepared for action. The men were the next day delivered up
in presence of the provincial secretary and other high officials. One
 of the party was about to be arrested at the instance of the American
consul, but was hurried away by his friends. The case of the steamer
is about to go into the admiralty court; some say it is to be referred to
the home (English) Government. The U. S. Government has charged
the party with murder and piracy and made demand for their surrender
under the Ashburton treaty. Warrants to that effect have been issued
in both provinces. Three of the men have been arrested here and are
having preliminary investigation to-day. The honorable John H. Gray,
one of the most influential lawyers of the province, is defending the
prisoners in the name of the Confederate Government. He first asked
me if the Confederate Government would recognize the act and make
the cause its own. I replied I thought they would, but that I had no
authority fo~ so stating. I fear there is a good deal of informality in
the authority by which the capture was made. In the first place, the
letter of marque was issued to some man (whose name I forgetwas
captain of Modern Greece) and then transferred to Captain Parker at
Charleston custom-house. (There is no one here who can prove there is
a law of the Confederacy sanctioning this.) Captain Parker dont seem
to have his true name. It is said by some to be Locke.
	The Retribution was condemned as unseaworthy and sold at Nassau
some months since. Braine, I dont think, had any commission, but
simply acted on Parkers order, copy of which I enclose. If you can
procure him a lieutenants commission and send me at once to this
place he may come forward and cover the whole party, and no doubt
save the vessel and cargo. If this commission can be had let it be
dated back prior to this transaction, and if possible send through the
lines and mail to me. It shall be used for no further purpose than to
cover this affair, unless by consent or direction of the Government.
	I know nothing of Braine, except what I have seen of him here. He
seems to have good deal of determination, but I fear not so much pm-
deuce. He says he was a lieutenant in First Kentucky regiment,
enlisted at Louisville, but hailed from Nashville; was taken prisoner in
Indiana 18th August, 1861, and kept in Fort Warren six months.
Lord Lyons got him out. Was in with Mason and Slidell, General
Winders brother, and others. His father, John Braine, is colonel
Twelfth Mississippi liegmmnent infantry, stationed at Fort Morgan;
resided near Holly Springs, Miss., before this war. The young men
arrested here, it is said, went into this affair with spirit; they are natives
of this province and should be protected by our Government as far as
can be. One has a brother now in Southern Army. Major Collins is
in the West; was taken prisoner, but made his escape and has gone
back. It is to be hoped the Goverment will send on an agent to Halifa

Page 541

541
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
at once, one well posted and with all the law bearing on those matters.
The Yankees are doing all they can to get possession of these men, as
well as the ship. I have given the facts in the ct~se so far as I have
been able to get them, which are, I think, correct.
	Mr. Gray promised to make up statement [to] forward the Govern-
ment, but says he has not had time to do so, nor can he tell much of
the proceedings as yet.
	I am, yours, respectfully,	~ ~. TU~L~NGTON.
lion. GEo. DAVIS,

Wilmington, N. C.

[Enclosure.]

Lieutenant Commanding JOHN CLIBBON BRAJiNE:
	You are hereby ordered to proceed to the city of New York and
State aforesaid,with the following officers: First Lieutenant II. A.
Parr, Second Lieutenant David Collins, Sailing Master Tom Sayers,
First Engineer Smith, and crew of 22 men. You will, upon arrival
there, engage passage on board the steamer, and use your own discre-
tion as to the propel time and place of capture. Your action toward
crew and passengers will be strictly in a~~cordance with the Presidents
instructions. You will, as circumstances may permit, bring your
prize to the Island of Grand Manan for further orders, Seal Cove Har-
bor, if accessible.
JOHN PARKER,
Captain C. S. Privateer Retribution.
DECEMBER 2, 1863.


Letter from the Confederate agent at Bermuda, West Indies, to the Secretary of State of
the Confederate State8, transmitting enclosures in relation to the Chesapeake affair.

ST. GEORGE, BERMUDA, January 15, 1864.
	SIR: I have the honor to hand you herewith a letter from B. Wier,
esq., of Halifax, with enclosure as stated. In the absence of any spe-
cific authority to act in the matter, and for fear of compromising more
important interests of the Government at this port, I have declined to
take any action in the preInise~.
	The seizure of the Chesapeake has excited a good deal of feeling, and
it seems important that the Government of the Confederate States
should either disclainm it or recognize it as a regular act of war, committed
under letter of marque. In the meantime some of the persons implicated
have been arrested under charges of piracy and murder, and, if no claim
to the Chesapeake as lawful prize of war is preferred by the Government
of the Confederate States, are liable to surrender to the Government of
the United States under the extradition treaty.
	That system of warfare expressed in the capture of the Chesapeake
has not the approval of my better judgment, but I hope some effort
consistent with the dignity of the Government may be made to relieve
the captors from their embarrassment.
	The flagrant violation of international law committed by the U. S.
gunboat Ella and Annie in recapturing the Chesapeake in Sambro Har-
bor has created in this province a strong feeling of sympathy for the
original captors and of bitter hostility to the United States

Page 542

542	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	This will be handed to you by Mr. Parr, one of the parties concerned,
and I respectfully refer you to him for additional information on the
subject.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	Hon. J. P. BENJAMIN,	N. ~ WALKER.
Secretary of State.
[Enclosure.]

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, January 5, 1864.
	SIR: I beg leave to transmit to you for the information of the Con-
federate Government the enclosed documents:
	No. I. The affidavit of Lieutenant Parr.*
	No. 2. A copy of Captain Parkers commission.*
	No. 3. Memorandums and suggestions from J. W. Ritchie, esq., attor-
ney at Law.
	No. 4. Paper to appoint a proctor.*
	These papers, as you will observe, relate to the matter of the steamer
Ohesapeake, lately captured on a voyage fiom the city of New York to
Portland, in the State of Maine, out of which a good many complica-
tions have arisen, and there are probably more in the future. It is
almost impossible to gather from newspapers anything reliable as
to the facts of the case, but I have personally used some pains to make
myself acquainted with the circumstances.
	The original idea of making the capture was started at St. John, New
Brunswick. Captain Parker there commissioned Lieutenants l3raine
and Parr to )~roceed to New York with what men they could get to take
passage in the Chesapeake, or any Federal steamer, and capture her as
opportunity should offer. Parker remained at St. John for the purpose
of arranging for a supply of coals, etc. The capture was made off Cape
Cod 20 miles, and the vessel ran to the mouth of St. John Harbor,
where the passengers were landed (fatal mistake), and as tile arrange-
ments for coals did not succeed, I believe for the want of money, the
steamer had to bear away for the coast of Nova Scotia, intending to
proceed to the east of Halifax, where coals could be had and where
telegraph communications did not exist, but unfortunately a gale caine
on, which lasted two days, and the Chesapeake put into Shelburne, 150
miles west of this port, where she obtained a few tons of coals and
started for Le Have, about 75 miles eastward. Here she remained over
two days, and the telegraph wires communicated her whereabouts to
every part of the proviuce. In the meantime several Federal gunboats
came here and upon our coasts and were keeping a strict watch upon
her, and, from information, one of them entered the harbor of Sainbro,
15 miles from this port, and there foutid the Chesapeake coaling. The
captain of the Chesapeake had been advised by a Federal spy to pro-
ceed from Le Have to Sambro, and a more certain Place for capture
could not have been selected. He entered the harbor in the afternoon,
and~ the telegraph communicated the fact to the American consul here.
	immediately informed the commander of the Ella and Annie, who
proceeded to the place and captured her at 8 a. m. On the following morn-
ing. The night previous Captain Parker came np to this city and a
cargo of coals was purchased, a part of which was got on board, but it
was too late. As I before remarked, had the Chesapeake succeeded in
getting to the eastward of this city, there would have been no difficulty
in obtaining coals, and she could have got away without any hindrance.

Not found

Page 543

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	543

	The Ella and Annie, of course, has committed a gross outrage upon
international law in taking a vessel in a neutral harbor, but as she
failed to secure but one of the men engaged in capturing the Chesa-
pealce she bronght her prize to Halifax, making pr~oners at the same
time of two engiueers who had been sent from Halifax. On their
arrival here the Federal officers denied having any prisoners, but the
fact leaked out, and our governor demanded them to be delivered up,
advising the five gunboats and one frigate (Niagara) not to leave the
harbor until the surrender was made, and to let them. know he was in
earnest he had all the harbor batteries doubly manned and prepared
for the worst. The Yankees then surrendered the men. In the mean-
time, the American comisul had obtained a warrant to arrest the prisoner
Wade as a pirate, but on stepping on shore and his irons being knocked
off one or two of our people stepped between him and the constables.
He was advised to jump into a boat, and was rowed ofl to the infinite
amusement of the bystanders and the chagrin of the Federal consul
and a few Yankee spies that follow in his train here. The Chesapeake
and her cargo have beeh taken possession of by our authorities, and she
lies at the Queens wharf. Warrants have been issued by demand of
the Americami consul against all her crew as l)irates and murderers,
and claiming their surrender under the Ashburton treaty, and Mr.
iRitchie, the legal man we have employed, feels it to be highly impor-
tant to have satisfactory evidence as to Captain Parkers position with
the Confederate Government; also, as to whether a claim shall be made
by you as the agent of the Government for the vessel and cargo. He
is strongly of the opinion that if the capture has been made under the
direction of citizens of the Confederate States that it can not be con-
sidered anytl~ing but a legal transaction, and the vessel and cargo
belong in right to the Confederate Government. Mr. Hitchie is one of
our very best lawyers amid is also a friend to Southern independence.
As you may well imagine, we are suffering severely under the stric-
tures of Yankee newspapers, and any amount of bilhingsgate language
is being showered upon our devoted heads, but this we are prepared
for, as nothing less can be expected from our Yankee neighbors, who
seem to have lost all sense of shame or fair play.
	The three men taken at St. Johit, New Brunswick, are now nuder
examination there, and probably the whole question will come up as to
whether they were justified under their instructions to make the
capture. That result, I hear, will not be forthcoming before the sailing
of the steamer.
	The steamer Chesapeake is worth ~1OO,OOO, cargo perhaps half that
amount, and she is worth conten(ling for. Should you decide to put in
a claim for the Confederate Government, I shall be happy to do all I
can here for its interests. We have for the present retained Mr. IRitchie
as counsel, etc. I notice by the newspapers of to-day that the Chesa-
peake and cargo have gone into the court of admiralty, and that the
first hearing will be on the 11th. As that will only be preliminary, no
doubt time will be given for claimants to come in, and I hope you will
be enabled to make yours in favor of the Government without a refer-
ence to theni. At the same time it would be important to communicate
~t once with the Government, and obtain their recognition of Parker,
Braine, and Parr being bona fide subjects of the Confederation, and
that they held commissions, etc., as the case may be, as this will
materially strengthen the case now before the court, but you will per-
ceive in the meantime it will be necessary to put in the claim

Page 544

544	OPERATIONS OP THE CR1TJSERSUNIO~,.

	Capi~ain Wilkinson left with me $720 to pnrchase coals and otherwise
assist in getting the Chesapeake away from our coasts. A portion has
been expended in various ways. The coals were, of course, lost. I
shall keep a correct account of the moneys, ann, in accordance with
Captain Wilkinsons instructions, account for the same to you.
	Hoping to hear from yon by the first opportunity, I remain, yours,
very respectfully,
B.	WIER.
	Major N. S. WALKER.

[Subenciosure.]

HALIFAX, January 5, 1864.
	Mv DEAR SIR: I think you ha(l better send to the gentleman at
Bermuda who is the agent of the Confederate States copies of the affi-
davits.made by the parties who witnessed the seizure of the Chesapeake
at Sambro Harbor, as well as a copy of the affidavit made by Mr. Parr,
who represents himself to be a lieutenant in the Confederate service,
as to the original capture, with such other infrrmation relative to it
as you may be able to afford him, and ascertain from him whether he
will authorize a claim to be put in for her as a prize belonging to the
Confederates.
	From the investigation I have given the subject I am led to believe
that the captors were not in possession of any specific authority from
the Confederate Government to make the capture, so as to enable them
to claim her as their prize. If the capture, however, was made by or
under the orders of Southerners, though not commissioned, it is a law-
ful one, but in that case she would belong to the Confederate Govern-
ment and not to the captors.
	Jn case a claim is put in, the main qnestion will be, Was she cap-
tured by Confederates, or notl Iii the former case she would be a
lawful prize; in the latter, the act would be piracy. Mr. Parr who
represents himself to be a Southerner, and if, as he says, he holds a
commission in the Confederate Army, the case will be all the stronger.
	The ship is now in the court of admiralty, and if there is an inten-
tion to claim her as lawful prize no time shonld be lost in obtaining
the proof necessary to establish a claim.
	Should this course be determined on, an anthority will be required
by the party acting as proctor. I send the form of a proxy which can
in the first instance be signed by the, agent, but it would be desirable
to have one from the Government and means may possibly be taken
to obtain evidence from the Confederate States to establish the citizen-
ship of Parr, B raine, or Parker or s
		Yours, very truly, ome other of the		captors.
			J.	W. ItITCHIE.
	B.	WIER, E sq.


Letter of instructions from the Secretary of State of the Confederate States to Hon. J~ P.
Holcombe, in view of his appointment as special commissioner to renresent the Confed-
eracy in the affair of the 8teamer Chesapeake.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Richmond, February 15, 1864.
	SIR: You will receive herewith a commission from the President,
appointing you special commissioner to proceed to the British North
American Provinces, there to discharge the duties herein defined.




Page 545

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	545

	The immediate occasion which has prompted this action of the Presi-
dent arises from the following facts:
	John Clibbon Braine and Henry A. Parr, two citizens of this Con-
federacy, enlisted in its milItary service, and who had been previously
prisoners of war in the hands of the enemy, formed a plan to make
prize of a merchant steamer of ~he United States and bring her into a
Confederate port. The stratagem devised was that they shonid pro-
ceed disguised to New York, and with a party of men nuder their
orders make pretense of a desire to go as passengers from New York
to Portland, in the State of IXialne, and if successful in deceiving the
enemy to rise upon the captain and crew of the steamer when at sea,
seize the vessel, and after taking in sufficient coal to make the port of
Wilmington [N. C.], running the hazard of passing through the enemys
blockading fleet.
	It is proper further to observe that the original conception of this
enterprise seems attributable to Captain John Parker, of the schooner
Retribution. This schooner was duly commissioned as a privateer
and was provided with a letter of marque, issued by this Depart-
ment on the 27th October, 1862, of which a certified copy is furnished
you. The original commander of the privateer was Thomas B. Power,
who trausferre4 his command to Captain Parker. There is reason to
believe that Parkers real name was Locke; that although he enlisted
in our service and took an oath of allegiance to the Confederacy he was
really a British subject, and it was probably with the view of avoiding
any l)enalties that might resnlt from his disobedience to the neutrality
proclamation of her Britannic Majesty that he assumed a feigned name.
The reason for ~ abandonment of his command of the Retribution
does not appear. The Retribation, after cruising for some time as a pri-
vateer, was found to be unseaworthy, and was taken to the port of
Nassau [New Providence], where she was condemned as such and sold.
Captain Parker, being thus deprived of his vessel, set on foot the scheme.
above detailed for the capture of an enemys vessel, doubtless for the
purpose of obtaining for her a letter of marque, if he could succeed in
bringing her into a Confederate port. These facts in relation to Parker
are stated, not because it is presumed they have any controlling influ-
ence on the rights of this Government, but to the end that you may be
fully apprised of every circumstance that has come to our knowledge.
	Reverting to Braine and Parr, it appears that they went to New
York and purchased there the necessary arms and equipments for
their contemplated enterprise; that thus armed and equippe(l they suc-
ceeded in obtaining passage without detection (for themselves and a
body of men, 12 in number, whom they had engaged to serve under
them) on board the U. S. merchant steamer Chesapeake, which left New
York on Saturday, the 5th December, bound for Portland, in Maine,
and that when on the high seas, early in the morning of Monday, the 8th
[7th] December, they surprised those in command of the Chesapeake and
captured her after a struggle of a few minutes duration, without fur-
ther bloodshed than the killing of one and the wounding of two of her
officers. The captors announced themselves as in the service of the
Confederate States, and informed the prisoners that they were prison-
ers of the Confederate States.
	The captors who had thus obtained possession of the prize, and who
had been instructed by Parker to act in strict accordance with the
Presidents instructions to the private armed vessels of the Confed-
eracy, took the Chesapeake into the Bay of Fundy, and when near the
port of St. John, New Brunswick? the officers, passengers, and crew of
N W RYOL ii3

Page 546

546	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.


the Chesapeake (except two engineers and three firemen) were released
and placed on board of a pilot boat which had been procured for that
purpose by Captain Parker. The Chesapeake was~then pnt tinder the
command of Captain Parker, who had come in the pilot boat to meet
her, and the steamer proceeded to the southern coast of Nova Scotia
to receive the fuel and supplies necessary to enable her to prosecute
her voyage to the Confederate States. She arrived in Sambro Harbor,
Nova Scotia, ~v here she was lying in possession of her captors and
receiving coal from a British vessel in the harbor, when the U. S. gun-
boat Ella and Annie entered the British harbor, and her commander
(with that habitual contempt of the territorial sovereignty of Great
Britain and of her neutral rights which characterizes our enemies)
recaptured the prize steamer, captured one of the crew and two engi-
neers, who had been employed in Nova Scotia to aid in running her to
Wilmington, committed acts of violence on the coal schooner, and then
left the British port with the Chesapeake in possession, bound for the
United States. It further appears that the captain of the Ella and
Annie was met at sea by a superior officer of the Federal Navy, and was
ordered by him to return to Nova Scotia and to restore the Chesapeake to
the jurisdiction of Great Britain, from which it bad been wrongfully
abducted. The Ella and Annw accordingly took the Chesapeake to the
port of Halifax, where she was delivered np to the British authorities.
The prisoners were kcpt concealed by the Federal officers, and their
existence denied, but upon the peremptory demand of the governor,
accompanied by a demonstration of military preparation which indi-
cated that th~e demand could not be evaded with impunity, the prison.
ers were delivered up. The official agents of the United States then
commenced a series of attempts to obtain possession of the persons
of those engaged in the enterprise, on the absurd pretense that they
were pirates and murderers who had committed crimes within the
jurisdiction of the United States, and who ought, therefore, to be deliv-
ered up to the Federal authorities under the extradition treaty of 1842
between the United States and Great Britain.
	Finally it appears that some proceeding, of the nature of which we
are ignorant, was had or is now pending in the court of vice-admiralty
at Halifax against the steamer Chesapeake, her tackle, apparel, and fur-
niture, and against the cargo laden on board. The value of the vessel
and cargo is estimated at near $200,000, and the proceedings in the
admfralty were instituted (or promoted, in the technical language of
the admiralty) by her Majestys advocate-general for said province.
	On these facts arise grave questions of international law, involving
the reciprocal rights and duties of the belligerents, not only as between
themselves, but between each belligerent and Great Britain as a neu-
tral power. Fortunately, the principles of the law of nations, on
which the rights of the Confederacy depend, are among the clearest of
those recognized by the publicists of the two Governments with which
we have to deal, and sanctioned by the decisions of their courts. The
President desires that in the discharge of the mission confided to you
the following principles be insisted on as the basis of the claims of
this Government:
	1. Braine and Parr, as citizens of the Confederacy, had the right,
during the pending war, even without a commission from their Govern-
ment, to capture and make prize of the public or private vessels of the
United States wherever and whenever found (except when within the
protection of neutral jurisdiction); and vessels and cargoes belonging
to the enemies of the Confederate States, when thus captured by Con

Page 547

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	547

federate citizens, may be lawfully condemned to the Confederate Gov-
ernment as prize of war, or, as they are technically termed, droits of
admiralty. (Lawrences Wheatons Law of Nation~, ed. 1863, p. 627;
p. 189, Lawrences note; 3 Phil. International Law, 50, 486, 459, 562;
Case of MeLeod, see 3 Phil., 50.)
	2.	Citizens of the Confederate States, engaged in any enterprise,
plot, or stratagem for the capture of vessels of the enemy, can, by no
possibility, be classed as pirates or murderers, without a perversion of
the meaning of words whose signification is well established. Whether.
under certain aggravated circumstances (which do not exist in the pres-
ent case), such persons would forfeit their claim to be treated as pris-
oners of war, if they fell into the hands of their enemies, need not be
here discussed, the sole question being whether a neutral power can
lawfully dtiiiver up the citizens of one belligerent, found within its
jurisdiction, to the other belligerent in order that they may be made to
answer as criminals for acts of hostility committed in the name of their
Government against an enemy on the high seas. (See authorities last
cited.)
	3.	The steamer Chesapeake, while lying within the jurisdiction of a
neutral power in the hands of her captors, was beyond the reach of
legal recapture. The tortious seizure of the vessel and cargo by the
armed cruiser of the United States was absolutely illegal and void, and
imposed on the British Government the duty of demanding the res-
toration of the vessel to the possession of the captors. The voluntary
rendition of the vessel and cargo to the neutral authorities confers no
right to retain them, but imposes the duty of restoring them to the
captors. (3 Phil., 227, 228; Lawrences Wheaton, ed. 1863, p. 715, etc.,
and notes by Lawrence.)
	4.	The courts of admiralty of the neutral power have no jurisdiction
to determine whether the Chesapeake was or was not good prize of war.
The jurisdiction over that subject is exclusively vested in the courts of
admiralty of the Confederate States. The proceedings, therefore,
before the British vice-admiralty are corarn non judice, and can not
affect the rights of this Government. (3 Phil., 228, 468; The Etad
Oyen, 1 Rob. Adm., 135; Lawrences Wheaton, 670.)
	5.	The admiralty courts of this Government are vested with juris-
diction to determine whether the Chesapeake and her cargo are prize of
war. The proceedings instituted in the admiralty court in Richmond
are justified by the law of nations, which permits the adjudication of
prize causes when the prize is within neutral jurisdiction with the
same validity as if within the jurisdiction of the captor. (Lawrences
Wheaton, 670; 3 Phil., 482.)
	6.	The present case is not affected by the fact that the British Gov-
ernment has prohibited the armed ships and l)rivateers of both bellig-
erents from carrying prizes made by them into the ports, harbors,
roadsteads, or waters of the United Kingdom or of any of her Majestys
colonies or possessions abroad, first, because the case is not within the
terms of the prohibition; secondly, because the Chesapeake was carried
into a British port, not in disregard of the Queens prohibition, but
under the stress of necessity, temporarily, and for the sole purpose of
procuring the fuel without which she could not proceed to a Confed-
erate port, and, thirdly, because even if an infraction of the rnle estab~
lished by the British Government had occurred, this fact might justify
that Government in compelling the immediate departure of the prize
vessel from her ports, but could not vest iu it the right of withholding
the prize from the possession of the captors or assuming jurisdiction to
dispose of i

Page 548

548	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	7.	Nor would the case be altered if it should appear that the parties
engaged in the capture of the Chesapeake took their departure from the
neutral jurisdiction with the intelit of making th~capture. The courts
of the neutral power have an exceptional jurisdiction in cases of prizes
brought within its territory, if the capture was made within its terri-
torial limits, or by armed expeditions fitted out within its limits. In
the present case the expedition was fitted out and all the arms and
equipments of the captors were procured and prepared in the port of
New York, within the territory of the enemy. (The JiJ strelta, 4 Wheaton,
298; the Santissima Trinidad, 7 Wheaton, 283; Wheatons Law of
Nations, 671; 3 Phil., 477,479.)
	8.	The fact that this Government is not recognized by that of the
neutral power as an independent Government does not affect the ques-
tions now involved. Our recognition as a belligerent entitles us to the
exercise of all the rights and powers of an independent belligerent
nation, as against both the enemy and the neutrals. (See authorities
last cited.)
	9.	If the British authorities have given up the prize to the former
enemy owners, as is stated in the recent Northern newspapers, that
Government is bound to reimburse to us the value of the vessel and
cargo. (Lawrences Wheaton, 720; 3 Phil., 478; case of the General
Armstrong.)
	Having thus enunciated the principles on which this Government
vests for the vindication of its rights, I now proceed to indicate the
course which the President desires you to pursue in asserting them.
	On arrivipg in Halifax it will be proper to communicate to the lieu-
tenant-governor, the Earl of Mulgrave, or to his successor if he be no
longer in office, the fact of your arrival with a special commission
empowering you to represent this Government iu all matters touching
its interests as a belligerent in the British North American colonies,
and especially in relation to its claim for the delivery to it of the
steamer Chesapeake, its tackle, apparel, and furniture, and the cargo
laden on board, as prize of war, to the end that the question of the
validity of the capture and the condemnation or release of the captured
vessel and cargo may be determined by the admiralty courts of this
Government. You will request an audience for the purpose of exhibit-
ing the credentials with which you are provided to attest your author-
ity to act in behalf of this Government. It may be that the lieutenant-
governor of Nova Scotia is not the proper person to whom your demand
should be addressed, and that it is necessary to address your applica-
tion to the captain-general and governor in chief of Canada, Nova
Scotia, New Brunswick, and Prince Edward Island. After informing
yourself on this point you will, if necessary, proceed to Canada, and
there request an audience of Viscount Mouck in the manner above
indicated. You will frame your application so as to make it apparent
that your claim to act rests on the rights of this Government as a bel-
ligerent, officially recognized as such by Great Britain, and while care-
fully avoiding any expression which could be construed into an admis-
sion that our independence is matter of doubt or question, you will
endeavor to prevent Great Britains unjust denial of that independence
from being brought under consideration as an obstacle to the success
of your mission.
	If the interview should be accorded, and your right to act as the
authorized commissioner of a belligerent power should be admitted,
you will then present to the proper authority (either the governor in
chief or the lieutenant-governor, as the case may be) a demand for th

Page 549

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION. -~	549


restoration to you, as representing the Government of the captors, of
the captured vessel and cargo, and you may consent that they remain
in the neutral harbor, if desired by the British ut~orities, to abide the
decision of our admiralty court, as the exclusive judge of the question
whether they are or not good prize of war. If the vessel and cargo be
delivered np, to be sent to our ports, you will take the necessary
measures for placing on board a commander, crew, and the requisite
fuel and supplies for the voyage, in doing this you will give prefer-
ence, unless you see good reason to the contrary, to the officers who
captured the Chesapeake, if they desire to take charge of her on the
voyage to the Confederacy.
	It is scarcely necessary to say that you will give special prominence
to the demand that the officers and men who, in the name and in the
service of this Government, made capture of the Chesapeake and cargo
be at once liberated from confinement and discharged from the frivolous
and vexatious prosecutions to which they have been subjected at the
instance of the Federal authorities. You will, in the name of this
Government, claim that the captors were acting under its authority
and that their act in making capture of the vessel and cargo is main-
tained and vindicated by this Confederacy, which assumes all the
responsibility properly attaching to the act, and you will insist that
under the law of nations this assumption of responsibility by the Gov-
ernment of the captors relieves them from all the consequences of their
act and entitles them to immediate and unconditional liberation from
all restraint upon their persons.
	If the British colonial authorities decline acting upon your demand,
and refer you to their judicial tribunals for redress, you will, after
addressing to them a protest against the assumption of jurisdiction by
the British courts, place the claims of this Government in the hands
of competent proctors, to be asserted in the admiralty courts of the
province. But the question of jurisdiction must be distinctly raised in
the court and the claims of this Government must be submitted for
decision, under reservation of its objections to the jurisdiction.
	Finally, if the authorities of the British provinces refuse communi-
cation with you, decline to receive you to an interview, or refuse to
admit your authority to represent this Government in the assertion of
its rights as a belligerent, you will make a firm but temperate remon-
strance and protest against their action as a breach of international
law, a violation of the rights of this Government and of the duty of
Great Britain as a neutral power; and you will plainly state that we
hold Great Britain responsible for the whole value of the captured
property and shall ever insist npon our demand for indemnity.
	There is one contingency so remote as perhaps not to justify instruc-
tion, but which it would be improper wholly to overlook. If you find
that the British authorities deterniine, notwithstanding your protest,
to deliver up the captors, or any of them, in accordance with the
demand made by the United States for their extradition as criminals,
you will communicate to those authorities the determination of this
Government not to remain indifferent to what we would be compelled
to regard as an outrage on our right and an inexcusable betrayal to our
enemies of men who are recognized by us as entitled to the protection
of our Government. It would be unexampled iii history that persons
in the service of one belligerent should, under such circumstances, be
delivered by a neutral to the other belligerent with the certainty that
the victims, even if not put to death, would at least be subjected to
prolonged and cruel captivity

Page 550

550	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	It may, perhaps, occur that the admiralty court will determine to
retain jurisdiction of the prize, and it might consent to receive a claim
on the part of the captors, while refusing to adn~t on the part of this
Government a similar claim, by reason of the action of the British
Government in refusing recognition of our independence. In that
event you will give to the captors the benefit of your aid and counsel,
and will defray the expenses of the proceedings instituted in their
name at the charge of this Government.
	You will receive herewith all the papers and documents which are
deemed useful to your mission, and of which a list is subjoined.
	Before closing these instructions it is proper to add that they are
based on the statement of facts which precedes them, but our sources
of information are not perfect enough to permit entire reliance. You
will be able, on arrival at Halifax, to ascertain whether there be any
important divergence between the facts as they really occurred and
those assumed in this dispatch. In such event you will exercise a
l)rudent discretion in your action, and will be at liberty to modify your
conduct, or even to abstain altogether from any interference with the
matter. While desirous of upholding to the full extent the rights and
interests of our country, we wish particularly to avoid the presentation
of demands not entirely justified by the principles of public law and
international morality.
Fery respectfully, your obedient servant,
	J. P. BENJAMIN,
	Hon. J. P. HOLCOMBE,	Secretary of State.
Specia~ Gommi8sioner, etc., Richmond.


Letter from the Secretary of State of the Confederate States to the district attor.~ey, Rich-
mond, Va., regarding libel for the condemnation of steamer Chesapeake as prize to the
Confederate Government.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Richmond, February 16, 1864.
	SIR: I have the honor to enclose you an extract from the instructions
prepared for the commissioner whom we are about to send to Nova
Scotia, as the most convenient statement which can be furnished you,
to enable you to prepare your libel in admiralty for the condemnation
of the Ohenapeake and cargo as prize of war to this Government.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	J. P. BENJAMIN,
	P. II. AYLETT, Esq.,	Secretary of State.
C.	S. District Attorney, Richmond.


Letter from the Secretary of State of the Confederate States to the lieutenant-governor of
Nova Scotia, introducing Hon. James P. Holcombe as special commissioner to represent the
interest of the Confederacy in that colony.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Richmond, February 19, 1864.
	SIR: The President of the Confederate States of America has ap-
pointed the honorable James P. Holcombe, one of our most esteemed
and trustworthy citizens, special commissioner of the Confederate
States of America, to proceed to Nova Scotia and represent the Con-
federacy in all matters touching its interests as a belligerent in tha

Page 551

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS-UNION.	551

colony, and especially in relation to its claim for the delivery to it of
the steamer Chesapeake, her tackle, apparel, and furniture, and the cargo
laden on board, now lying in the port of Halifax ~ and I now have the
honor to introduce him to your Excellency and to ask for him a recep-
tion and treatment corresponding to his station and to the purposes
for which he is sent. Those pnrposes he will more particularly explain
to yon.
	Hoping that throngh his agency these may be accomplished, I avail
myself of this occasion to offer to your Excellency the assurance of my
distinguished consideration.
J.	P. BENJAMIN,
Secretary of State.
	His Excellency LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR OF NOVA SCOTIA.


Report of the Confederate special commissioner to Nova Scotia, to the Secretary of

State of the Confederate States, regarding the Chesapeake affair.

HALIFAX, NOVA SCoTIA, April 1, 1864.
(Received April 19. J. P. B.)
	SIR:	In the communication ~vhich I had the honor to transmit from
Bermuda I explained the reasons which induced me to turn the Gale-
donia over to her owners, and to engage my passage to Halifax in the
British mail steamer Alpha. From what has since transpired it is cer-
tain that if I had escaped capture from the Caledonia there would have
been no saving of time at all commensurate with the heavy expense to
the Government which the employment of that vessel would have
involved. The Alpha did not reach this port until the 23d of March,
having been delayed for two days by a severe storm which it encoun-
tered soon after leaving the Gulf Stream. Upon my arrival I learned
that the prisoners whose delivery had been demanded by the United
States under the extradition treaty had been released by the judicial
authorities of New Brunswick upon habeas corpus, and although new
warrants are out for their arrest it is not probable they can be exe-
cuted. The most embarrassing phase which this case could assume
would be presented for solution by the surrender of these men. What-
ever may be the light in which the captors of the Chesapeake should be
regarded according to the strict rules of law, the Government and peo-
ple of the Confederate States can not be mdi erent to their fate. They
imperiled life arid liberty in an enterprise of great hazard, which they
honestly believed was invested with sanction of law, and to which,
as a body, I have reason to think they were mainly impelled by a gen-
erous sympathy with our caure. While, therefore, in exercising the
discretion confided to me, I have determined at least for the present, to
interpose no claim to the Chesapeake as prize of war on behalf of the
Confederate States, I have endeavored to observe a diplomatic reti-
cence as to the view which our Government may ultimately take of
that transaction. I cau imagine the existence of circumstances under
which the Government, to save these brave and innocent men from a
cruel and unrighteous doom, might claim the benefit of principles
which it would not think it judicious to assert if the only interest at
stake was one of property.
	As to the Chesapeake, I find that she had been surrendered to her
original owners without the almost invariable requisition of bail to
answer prospective demands. The reasons which induced the judge
to depart from the established course of admiralty practice are con

Page 552

552	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

tamed in the opinion (of which I send you a copy). Taking the opinion
and the conduct of the magistrate himself during the progress of the
cause (of which I also transmit a history) together, I do not believe
any judicial proceeding has taken place in a British court for a century
and a half so discreditable to its dignity, its intelligence, or itsjustice.
	But, notwithstanding my indignation at the offensive and unworthy
bearing of Judge Stewart, I am not willii g, after a full examination of
the facts of this case, to commit the Government to interference with it
in any form. The moral weight which should attach to its interposi-
tion would be impaired by advancing a claim which it is almost certain
would be allowed neither by the British courts nor the British Govern-
ment, and which we could sustain only by affirming principles doubtful
in law and equivocal in morals. The facts upon which my opinion rests
are these: Of the party actually engaged in the capture, fourteeii or
fifteen in number, only one has any claim to the character of a Con-
federate citizen, or belonged in any way to its service. This was the
second officer,II. A.Parr, who, although born in Canada, had lived for
the last seven years in Tennessee. The lieutenant commanding, John
C. Braine, I have ascertained beyond doubt, had been released from Fort
Warren on the application of the British minister, on the allegation of
being a British subject. This, indeed, is the substance of his own
admission, nor has he since been within the Confederacy. Although he
states that he had been in our military service at an earlier period, the
declaration is probably untrue, and would not be received to contradict
the deliberate and solemn allegation by which he obtained his liberty.
lie is, I think, estopped from claiming what in truth I do not believe
he ever possessedthe Confederate nationality. Passing over for the
present the consideration of what effect Parkers connection with this
enterprise may have upon its character, it appears to have been a cap-
ture made for the benefit of the Confederacy by a body of men without
any public authority, and who, with the single exception of a subordi-
nate officer, were British subjects. I do not think such a case can be
brought within the application of the principleperfectly well settled,
and which in a war like the present one government ought never to
yieldthat the citizen of a belligerent state, with or without a com-
mission, may capture enemies property at sea. That doctrine (as may
be seen in the elaborate discussion of the opinions of British and foreign
jurists by Judge Story in the case of the ship Emulous (1 Gall., 563,
55, 8; Cranch,* 110), a discussion which Mr. Phillimore pronounces
perfectly exhaustive) is founded upon the hostile relation which the
mere declaration of war creates between citizens of the contending
states. A comnussion would appear to me indispensable to enable a
belligerent to claim for itself the benefit of captures made in its behalf
by citizens of a neutral state. Parrs position may be, and in all proba-
bility is, very different from that of his associates; but it does not seem
to me to have been sufficiently commanding to impress on the enterprise
his own nationality. The question then recurs whether the legal com-
plexion of this capture can be altered by Parkers connection with it,
assuming that his Confederate character can be established by proof.
In the absence of all facilities for investigation (the law library of the
province, to which I have access, being very meager), I am not free from
all doubt as to the correctness of my conclusions upon this point. The
letters of marque, I am disposed to think, attach only to the vessel and
confer authority upon the master, whoever he may be, for the time being.
They do not confer upon the commander a personal authority which

* As in original copy

Page 553

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	553

will survive the destruction of his ship (unless in reference to a prize
which she may have captured) and enable him to act as a commissioned
officer wherever he may be found. If I am correc~ in this, Parker can
only be regarded as a private citizen of the Confederacy, with no right,
such as he assumed, to enlist men or appoint officers in its service, and
as he was not present when the Chesapeake was taken, the character of
the capture must be determined by that of persons on board at the time.
If, however, I am mistaken in my view of the law upon this point (which
I would be very glad to find), there is another principle, which, while
it would not affect the captors with any crime in the eye of public law,
would no doubt be appealed to in order to deprive us of the fruits of
the capture. I mean that enunciated by the Supreme Court of the
United States in the cases of LArmistad De Renes, 5 Wheat., 385; the
Bello Corcurnes, 6 Wheat., 152; La Conception, ib., 235; La AS1antissima
Trinidad, 7 Wheat., 283, 289, to wit, that where a prize has been taken
by any agency created in violation of neutral sovereignty it will, if
brought voluntarily within the neutral jurisdiction, be restored to the
original owners. I do not know that the case of the Chesapeake can be
brought within the range of any exception to this principle. The evi-
dence contained in the report of the trial at St. John (of which I send
a copy) discloses a clear violation of the British foreign enlistment act
by Parker, and upon this ground alone I apprehend that any claim we
might advance to the Chesapeake would be defeated. The conduct of
the captor after the capture in peddling the cargo in violation of the
revenue laws of the province, and the appropriation of a portion of the
proceeds by~some of them to their own nse, and all the developments
which have been made as to the ir~ptives and character of Braine, are
calculated to throw as [so] much suspicion and discredit around the
whole transaction that I should deem it unwise, even were the law sup-
posed to be in our favor, without weightier reasons than now exist, to
compromise the Confederacy by assuming its responsibility.
	I can not close this communication without bringing to the attention
and notice of the Government the generous sympathy and liberal con-
tribution in every matter in which the interests of the Confederacy were
supposed to be involved of some prominent gentlemen in this city, and
especially of Dr. Almon, Mr. Keith, Mr. Weir, and Mr. Ritchie. They
have given money, time, and influence without reserve, as if our cause
had been that of their own country. I feel that I shall not transcend
the spirit of my instructions in tendering Mr. IRitchie, of this city, and
Mr. Gray, of St. John, on behalf of the Confederacy, some compensa-
tion for professional services which were rendered most faithfully and
laboriously, and with no other object than to advance our cause. I feel
that the gentlemen whose names I have given are entitled to some
special acknowledgment from our Government of their handsome con-
duct, and I am certain it would be highly appreciated by them and
would exercise a happy influence on this community.
	It was so late before I could procure all the documents upon which
to rest my action that I am unable to embrace in this letter several
matters I desire to bring to your attention.
With highest consideration,	JA)~ES ~. HOTACO1~13E.

Hon. J. P. BENJAMIN,
&#38; cretary of state, Confederate ~S~tates of America.

	P. 5.It may not be improper to add that the conclusions which I
have reached are in accordance with the judgment of our most discreet
and intelligent friends in this place

Page 554

554	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from the Secretary of State of the Confederate States to the Confederate speeiaZ
commissioner to Nova Scotia, approving his conduct in dealing with the Briti8h
authorities in the Chesapeake affair.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Richmond, April 20, 1864.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your dispatch
of the 1st instant, giving the result of your investigation into the facts
connected with the capture of the steamer Chesapeake and the action
of the British colonial authorities in relation to the vessel and cargo
and the parties concerned in the capture, also enclosing the printed
pamphlet and newspapers containing reports of the judicial proceedings
and decisions.
	A careful examination of the whole subject has brought this Govern-
ment to the same conclusion as has been reached by yourself, and we
can not hesitate to admit that the facts, as now established, present the
case in an aspect entirely different from that in which we viewed it on
the representations made by the parties engaged.
	In the instructions prepared for your guidance in the conduct of this
business it was carefully pointed out that they were based on the
supposition of the truth of the following facts:
	First. That John C. Braine and Henry A. Parr were citizens of the
Confederate States, enlisted in its military service, had been prisoners
in the hands of our enemies, and that, having escaped to New Bruns-
wick, they there devised a stratagem for the capture of an enemys
vessel on the high seas, which was successfully carried out by the
seizure of the Chesapeake.
	Second. That, acting exclusively as belligerents in the public service
of their country, they touched at a point or points in the British colo-
nial possessions for the sole purpose of procuring the fuel indispen-
sable to making the voyage to a Confederate port.
	Third. That there had been no violation of the neutrality nor of the
sovereign jurisdiction of Great Britain by any enlistment, real or pre-
tended, of British subjects on British territory for service in the war
waged by us against the United States.
	It now appears from your own enquiries into the facts and from the
judicial proceedings that we were led into error, that the truth is as
follows:
	First. That the expedition was devised, planned, and organized in a
British colony by Vernon G. Locke, a British suibject, who, under the
feigned name of Parker, had been placed in commasid of the privateer
Retribution by the officer who was named as her commander at the
time of the issue of the letter of marque.
	Second. That Locke assumed to issue commissions in the Confed-
erate service to British subjects on British soil, without the slightest
pretext of authority for so doing, and without being himself in the
public service of this Government.
	Third. That there is great reason to doubt whether either Braine,
who was in command of the expedition, or Parr, his subordinate, is a
Confederate citizen, and the weight of the evidence is rather in favor
of the presumption that neither is a citizen and that the former has
never been in our military service.
	Fourth. That Braine, the commander of the expedition, after getting
possession of the vessel and proceeding to the British colonies, instead
of confining himself to his professed object of obtaining fuel for navi-
gating her to a Confederate port, sold portions of the cargo at different
points on the coast, thus divesting himself of the character of an officer
engaged in the legitimate warfare

Page 555

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	555

	Although at the period of your departure from ]ilichmond we had no
reason to doubt the statements made, it was considered imprudent to
act on them without further enquiry, and your instructions were there-
fore closed with the following sentences: Before ~losing these instruc-
tions it is proper to add that they are based on the statement of facts
which precedes them, but our sources of information are not perfect
enough to permit entire reliance. You will be able on arrival at Hali-
fax to ascertain whether there be any important divergence between
the facts as they really occurred and those assumed in this dispatch.
In such event you will exercise a prudent discretion in yonr action, and
be at liberty to modify your condnct, or even to abstain altogether from
any interference with the matter. While desirous of npholding to the
full extent the rights and interests of our country, we wish particularly
to avoid the presentation of demands not entirely justified by the prin-
ciples of public law and international morality.
	I have the directions of the President to intimate to you his satis-
faction with yonr exercise of this discretion. The encroachment on
the sovereign jurisdiction of her Britannic Majesty over her colonial
possessions in North America, and the violation of the neutrality pro-
claimed by her Majesty, as disclosed in the judicial proceedings, are
disclaimed and disapproved by this Government. While we maintain
and shall continue to uphold the right and duty of every citizen of the
Confederate States, and every foreigner enlisted in their service to
wage warfare openly, or by stratagem, upon the vessels of our enemies
on the high seas, whether armed or not, we distinctly disclaim and
disavow all attempts to organize within neutraljurisdiction expeditions
composed of neutral subjects for the purpose of carrying on hostilities
against the United States. The capture of the Chesapeake, therefore,
according to the facts now disclosed, far from forming the basis of any
demands on the part of this Government, is disclaimed.
	The President is much gratified that the superior judicial authorities
of New Brunswick have rejected the pretensions of the consul of the
United States that the parties engaged in this capture should be sur-
rendered, under the Ashburton treaty, for trial by the courts of the
United States on charges of murder and piracy.
	The case, as presented, seems to be simply that of men who, sympa-
thizing with us in a righteous cause, erroneonsly believed themselves
authorized to act as belligerents against the United States by virtue of
Parkers possession of the letter of marqne issned to the privateer
Retributiom. They may possibly have been conscious that they were
acting in opposition to the policy and wishes of their Government, but
no reason exists for supposing that they entertained any such motives
as would justify their being charged with a graver misdemeanor tl~ati
disobedience to her Majestys proclamation and to the foreign enlist-
ment law of Great Britain. It may not be without good effect that you
should communicate to the attorney-general of the province, in the same
unofficial manner in which you communicated the instructions relative
to the return of our escaped prisoners, the views above expressed and
the conclusions reached by this Government.
	The President has not read without marked gratification your warm
tribute to the generous gentleme whose sympathies in our cause have
been evidenced in so effective and disinterested a manner.
	He begs that you will to each of them, Dr. Almon, Mr. Keith, Mr.
Weir, and Mr. IRitchie, address, officially, a letter in his name return-
ing his thanks and those of our conntry for testimonials of kindness
which are appreciated with peculiar sensibility at a juncture when th

Page 556

556	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Confederacy is isolated by the action of Enropean Governments from
that friendly intercourse with other nations which it knows to be its
rights, and of which it is conscious it is not nndes~ving.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	P. BENJAMIN,

&#38; cretary of &#38; ate.
	Hon. JAS. P. HoLUoMBE, etc.

Additional report of the Confederate 8pecial commis8ioner to Nova Scotia, regarding the

Checapeake affair.

HALIFAX, NovA SCoTIA, April 26, 1864.
(Received May 26. J. P. B.)
	SIR: Nothing has transpired since the date of my last dispatch to
alter my conviction of the impolicy of any intervention by the Confed-
erate States in the affair of the Chesapeake. I have conversed freely
on the subject with eminent legal gentlemen, both in official position
and out of it. They generally express regret that, through the folly
and misconduct of the captors, the Chesapeake was not secured to the
use of the Confederacy. They think, however, that the courts, if
required to pass upon the character of the transaction, would have
been compelled to regard it as in fact a capture by British subjects
never enlisted in our service by any person having authority so to do,
or, if otherwise, then enlisted in violation of the neutrality laws. It
is morally certain the home Government would not, under the circum-
stances, allo~r a claim for compensation for the surrender of the vessel
by the judicial authorities. And I can not but think that the presen-
tation of such a claim by our Government and its rejection (the case
being one, as all must admit, very doubtful both in law and in morals)
would impair its public prestige and weaken the moral weight which
might attach to its interposition upon future and more important occa-
sions.
	None of the captors have as yet been taken under the new warrants.
It would embarrass the government here as much as it would the
Confederate Government to have the solution of this question forced
upon them in reference to the captors. Whatever may be the strict
legal character of the transaction, public opinion would not tolerate
their treatment as pirates, whether by proceedings against them as
such on the part of the colonial authorities, or by their extradition to
the United States.
	For reasons stated in dispatch No. 4, I shall remain here until the
return of the next Bermuda boat, about the middle of May, when I
hope to. hear that the course I have taken in this matter meets with
your approbation and that of the President.
I remain, etc.,
JAMES P. iloLcoMnE.
Hon. J. P. BENJAMIN,
Secretary of State, Confederate States of America.

Decision rendered by the vice-admiralty court of Halifax, Nova Scotia, in the case of the
Queen vs. The Steamer Chesapeake and Cargo.

COURT OF VICE-ADMIRALTY,
Halifax, February 15, 1864.
	Judgment was this day given by the Hon. Alex. Stewart, C. B.,
judge of the vice-admiralty court, in the cause, No. 211, of the Queen vs

Page 557

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS-~-UNION.	557

The Steamer Chesapeake and Cargo. The advocate-general for the
Crown;J. W. Johnston, J. W. K. Johnston, and Isaac J. Wylde, esquires,
advocates and proctors for portions of the cargo~ the honorable S. L.
Shannon, advocate, and William Morse, esq., proctor, for the vessel and
the remainder of the cargo.
	On the 6th January last the advocate-general exhibited affidavits of
himself, made before the registrar, and copies of three affidavits made
before the mayor of this city by James Johnson, George Ames, and Mary
V. Burgoyne, and also the affidavits of William Henry, Alexander
Henry, John E. ilolt, and Patrick Conner, sworn before the registrar;
copies of all which affidavits are attached to this judgment. Upon
these affidavits he moved for a warrant to arrest the steamer Chesa-
peake and cargo as having been piratically taken on the high seas from
her lawful owners, which I granted. It was issued on the same day,
made returnable on the 12th, executed on the 7th, and returned and
filed in the registry on the 9th of January. On this last day he moved
for a commission of unlivery, which I granted, informing him that he
might cause the cargo to be unladen or not, as in his discretion he
should think fit.
	On the 18th he placed it in the hands of the marshal, who on the 29th
returned it executed, with inventory attached to it, unto the registrar.
	No appearance on behalf of the captors of the Chesapeake having
been filed on the return day of the warrant of arrest, they were, on
the petition of the procurator-general, in the usual manner pronounced
in default.
	Claims by British owners for parts of the cargo have been allowed,
viz, to Ross &#38; Co., of Quebec, for 109 hogsheads of sugar; to Belony
&#38; Lamotte, for 10 hogsheads of tobacco and 1 box of tinfoil~ to Charles
Sampson, for 1 cask of augers, and to James Melnlay, for 5 rolls of
sole leather; and her Majestys advocate-general having consented
thereto, I decreed writs of restitution.
	On the 10th February, Mr. Morse, on behalf of the owners of the
vessel, moved for the admission of their claim that the vessel be
restored to them, and that the remainder of the cargo, which is
unclaimed, and which is owned in part by British subjects and in part
by American citizens, should be delivered to them, in order that they
might carry the same to the original port of destination, Portland, in
the United States, and there deliver it to those who were entitled to
receive it. The advocate-general has examined this claim, and con-
sented that a writ of restitution thereof be granted without bail to
answer prospective, or what are, in this court, designated latent claims,
and upon this claim I am now giving judgment; but it is obvious that
thus granting this claim and the restoration prayed for will terminate
this case. These claimants are citizens of the United States of
America; the vessel is an American steamer; and I may mention that,
as an additional ground for the delivery of the unclaimed cargo to them,
they allege that they have a lien thereon for freights. It is the ordi-
nary practice of this court to direct property taken by pirates to be
returned to the ownerswithout delay, and (except where there is a strong
necessity for requiring it) without bail for latent claims, taking care to
protect the rights of the salvors and the droits of admiralty. At this
period it is incumbent on me to state that I adhere to the opinion I
expressed on the 9th and repeated on the 12th of January. I do not at all
controvert the legal principles suggested at the bar as worthy of my con-
sideration, but I do not perceive their applicability to the circumstances
~f the present case; but whether I be in error or not, whoever or what

Page 558

558	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUTSERSTJNTON.

ever they are who seized the vessel, and whatever in their own or in
their counsels estimation their rights may be, they have not thought
fit to vindicate th m before this court. They have, as I have just
noticed, suffered judgment by default.
	I have been much embarrassed in dealing with this case. To grant
this application will be entirely within the rules applicable to it, for,
on the facts sworn to, the taking was undoubtedly a piratical taking.
But in its origin, in its position before the court, in the mode of the
recapture, in short, in all the concomitant circumstances, the case is
very peculiar. I was therefore, in the absence of decided cases, obliged
to recur to and rely on, for my guidance, those principles which lie at
the basis of all law. And I do not think I shall be acting unbecom-
ingly in referring for a few moments to those principles.
	The right of self-defense is one of the fundamental attributes of an
independent state, and the principles which regulate its conduct toward
other states have their foundation in a higher philosophy than that
which underlies the municipal or positive law. The latter implies a
ruler to prescribe and a subject to obey. An independent state recog-
nizes no superior, acknowledges no authority paramount to its own.
Underneath international law lies the ultima ratio regum. Every inde-
pcndeut state determines for itself, as exigencies arise, what shall be
the penalty for infractions of the law which it prescribes. The sover-
eign whose territorial rights are violated by the subjects or citizens of
a friendly state is not bound to appeal for reparation to (what might
be) the tardy justice to be concedcd by that state. If those subjects
or citizens arp within its territory, it will inflict on them its own penalty,
in its own mode. An independent state is not circumscribed by the
limits which are essential to the administration of municipal law, since
by it the agents of the community protect from the aggression of the
wrongdoer the individuals of which it is composed. Then, if one of the
Queens subjects had violated the municipal law as flagrantly as the
captors of the Chesapeake have outraged the international law, and
such violation would have (as it unquestionably would) justly subjected
the offending vessel to forfeiture, shall those who have violated the
higher law be subjected to a less pcnalty l Assuredly not.
	Then as to the right disposal of the forfeited vessel. It were deroga-
tory to the royal dignity to add the proceeds of property which had
belonged to the citizens of a friendly nation to the privy purse of the
Queen, and it would as little become the honor of the British nation to
make profit out of their misfortune.
	What more appropriate mode of dealing with this vessel and cargo
than to restore them to their original owners ~ Not as a favor to them,
but as an act of justice to the offended dignity of the Crown; not as
recognizing any right of the Government of the United States to require
such restoration, but as a fit punishment of the offenders and a warn-
ing to others. The law which the Queen and Parliament have pre-
scribed to enforce the observance of her neutrality is to be found in her
Majestys proclamation and in the statute under the authority of which
it was issued. Is the offense which I have suggested against the munic-
ipal law, or can any offense, be more serious than that by which the
British nation might be drawn into the sad contest which has desolated
and is still desolating one of the fairest portions of the earth l
	By the affidavits on which I granted the warrant it is certain that
the Chesapeake, if a prize at all, is an uncondemned prize. For a
belligerent to bring an uncondemned prize into a neutral port to avoid
recapture is an offense so grave against the neutral state that it ips

Page 559

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	559


facto subjects that prize to forfeiture. For a neutral state to afford
such protection would be an act justly offensive to the other belligerent
state.
	The Chesapeake was brought not into oue port only, but into several
of the ports of this province. Not openly, bitt covertly; not in her
proper name, but in a false name. Still f~rther, they who thns invaded
the Queens territory surreptitiously lauded and sold therein a consider-
able portion of her cargo, making no distinction between those parts of
it which were owned by the subjects of her Majesty and those belong-
ing to the citizens of the United States, and instead of vindicating the
rights which it was asserted for them at the bar they possessed, they
(after landing on the shores of this province, and thus being under the
protection of British law) have long since lied from and are still fugi-
tives from it.
	These are the facts on which I deemed it right to recommend at once
that the vessel should not be unladen or removed from the custody of
the provincial government, in order that she might be restored intact
to her owners. I then thoughtI still thinkthat it would not consist
with the dignity of her Majesty, though the capture had been a lawful
one, to hold valid a plea on behalf of these persons. The facts I have
just mentioned must have been admitted, for they are in their nature
incontrovertible.
	This court has no prize jurisdiction, no authority to adjudicate be-
tween the United States and the Confederate States, or the citizens of
either of those States. Yet, if a claim to the vessel and cargo could
have been sustained, all further jurisdiction on my part over them must
have ceased, ~nd they must have been further disposed of by competent
authority, and it would have in that case been my duty to have exam-
ined into the question of prize. As the case at present stands, I am
rightfully exercising jurisdiction, for the facts disclosed by the affidavits
as to the actual taking of the vessel from the master and crew beyond
all doubt constitute a piratical taking. The effect of upholding the plea
of these captors might possibly be that, notwithstanding their gross mis-
conduct, the vessel and cargo might be left to them. For, as his honor
the administrator of the provincial government had directed the vessel
and cargo to be brought into this court for adjudication, he could hardly
then have resumed possession for any purpose. Impressed, then, by
these strong convictions, as such a condition is dispensed with by the
advocate-general, I will not myself volunteer to impose (as a condition
precedent to the restoration of the property) that their owners shall
give bail to answer prospective claims; for, if I am rightfully informed,
the amount to be required would be at the least $80,000, and to insist
on such bail might be equivalent to a refusal to restore the property.
	Unlading the vessels and the incident expenses have rendered their
ratable adjustment a matter of great diffioulty; a difficulty, to be sure,
which might be overcome by my decreeing a particular appraisement
and valuation of the vessel and cargo to be made by the marshal, and
a subsequent reference to the registrar and merchants. After a careful
consideration, however, of this part of the case, I think it not unjust
to order that the costs and expenses (except only the costs of these
claimants whose property is to be delivered to them here, which, as
well as those of the advocate-general appertaining thereto, they are to
pay) be paid by the owners of the vessel, leaving to them to adjust and
seek repayment thereof from the shippers, insurers, and other persons
chargeable therewith. If this were an ordinary case of recapture from
pirates the prescribed salvage would have been one-eighth of th

Page 560

560	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

valne of the property, and this, on the value of the vessel alone (which,
I am informed, is more than $60,000), would have been $7,000, and the
owners of both vessel and cargo have been fortunate that they were
not destroyed at sea, and so wholly lost to them. It is unnecessary to
recur to the circumstances of the recapture. It suffices to remark that
the taking was not an ordinary piratical capture. It is even possible
not to have been a case of piracy at all. This court wonid stultify
itself were it to affect ignorance of what is patent to everybody, namely,
that those who wrested the Chesapeake from the master and crew are at
the present moment in the adjoining province of New Brunswick
asserting that they made the capture as citizens of and parties duly
authorized by the Government of the Confederate States, and that
they have produced documents and proofs thereof before magistrates
there, duly invested with the right to determine the validity of their
claim, so far at least as affects their alleged piratical character. I
allow this claim, and will decree a writ of restitution when moved, to
be given to the claimants upon payment of the costs and expenses, as
I have before specified.
	The registrar will estimate as accurately as he can the amount which
will certainly cover the whole costs and expenses to be paid, as I have
directed, by the vessel, and upon that amount being paid into the Bank
of British North America, the bank of deposits of this court, he will.
issue the writ of restitution to the owners of the vessel. And he will.
by orders on the said bank, pay to the several parties entitled to receiv~
the same such sums as he may have taxed and allowed, and the remain-
der, if any, he shall return to the said owners. In like nianner he is to
tax and allow, and cause to be paid by the claimants of that part of
the cargo which has been, is, or is to be delivered here, all their costs and
the costs of the advocate-general appertaining to their claims. The
registrar will cause this judgment to be inserted in one of the city news-
papers, and he will also cause to be printed, in the same manner as the
affidavits in this cause are printed, this judgment, and also my remarks
thereon of the 13th of January aud 10th instant, and attach copies
thereof to this judgment, and also copies of the said affidavits. And
the registrar will include in his bill the charge for the printing done
and to be performed in this cause against the vessel, and pay the same
to Alpin Grant, esq., the printer of this court, out of the sum to be
deposited, as aforesaid, in the Bank of British North America.




Report of Commander ]ilcDougai, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Wyoming, transmitting statement of the ftrst officer of ship ~ontest,
captured by C. S. S. Alabama.
U.	S. S. WYOMING
Rhio, Decembe~ 9, 1863.
SIR:	On the evening of the 6th instant the chief engineer reported
the condition of the auxiliary boiler to be such as to prevent its further
use until repaired. As we have to depend on it for our supply of water,
I returned to this place on the 7th for its temporary repair and to wait
communication from our consul at Singapore. Enclosed is a report of
a survey on it, which will explain more fully its condition.
	As the ship has only stowage for about fifteen or eighteen days?
water, it is absolutely necessary that the auxiliary boiler should be in a
condition to furnish the necessary supply

Page 561

OPt~RKf~IONS OP ~H1~ CRtYISEll~UNlON.	531

	This morning I received from our consul at Singapore the enclosed
statement of Mr. Babcock, first officer of the ship ~Jontest, destroyed on
the 11th ultimo by the Alabama. No other news of her has been
received at Singapore up to the 7th instant.
	I shall proceed to-morrow to the Gaspar Strait, thence to Batavia,
where it will be necessary to make many repairs on the main and
auxiliary boilers, as scarcely a day passes without a report of some
new defect discovered. Enclosed is a report of the senior engineer as
to their present condition.
	It is with regret that, at a time when the services of the ship are
so much required and so much expected of, I am compelled to report
the bad condition of the boilers and of course her [in]efficiency to
cruise, yet I will do everything in my power to accomplish the object
of my cruise in this region.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
D.	MCDOUGAL,
Commander.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.

[Enclosure.]

Copy of statement of James D. Babcock, of New Bedford.

	Was chief officer of the ship Contest, of New York, 1,098 tons reg~
ister. Left Yohohama on 13th October, bound to New York. On
morning of ilth November, about 70 miles northeast of Batavia, at
10 a. in., saw a steamer abeam, bearing right down on us; about
twenty minutes after she hoisted American ensign. We ran our colors
up and kept on our course. In about twenty minutes niore she fired
a blank shot, we still keeping on our course. About 11:45, being then
about 3 miles off, she hauled down the ensign, ran up the Confederate
flag, and gave us a shot. We crammed on every sail we could carry,
14-knot breeze blowing, and dropped her until she got about a point
on our quarter. She crammed on everything, full steam, and all hands
aft to trim her. Finding us gaining, she headed up and gave us 110.
pound shot, which fell about one-half mile astern.
	About 12:30 the wind died away to a 6-knot breeze, when she
rapidly overhauled us. From about one-fourth mile astern she fired a
shot, which passed between fore and main masts, doing no damage,
but we thought it time to lay to. An armed boat came off and declared
us a prize of the Confederate war steamer Alabama, and our captain
was ordered to report himself on board thereof with his papers. I,
with my crew, was ordered to break out stores and provisions. We
were anchored in 17 fathoms. The ship was plundered of everything
valuable and we were sent on board the privateer about 7:30 oclock
p. m. They fired our ship about 9:30 p. in., then, hoisting the pro-
peller, sailed N. E. Our officers got a waist boat to sleep in; crew
kept on deck under guard. Our captain (Lucas) remained on deck
first night; afterwards had berth and mess in steerage. We had one
sick passenger, Mr. Nevis, of New York; he got cabin aft and messed
in wardroom. Next morning our baggage was overhauled; captain
allowed one small trunk and bag, officers and crew one small bag; Mr.
Nevis allowed all luggage; all our money and knives taken away. Under
sail until evening of 16th, when anchored off Sourouton [Serutu?]
Island. Evening of 17th bark passed us; did not speak her; sup-
posed to be English. Noon 18th sighted ship; hoisted Dutch ensign;
N W RYOL Ii 3

Page 562

562	OPERATIONS OF TUE CRUISERSUNION.

thought the ship was American. When about 2 miles off sent a boat
on board; turned out to be English; captain agreed to take us and
laud us iu nearest port; arrived in Batavia 28th. The ship was
Avalanche, of Liverpool, bound to London. During the ten days we
were on board were treated with the greatest kindness by captain and
crew of Avalanche.
	The Alabama is taunt, bark rigged, fore and main yards slung very
high, carries royals, bridge forward of smokestack, has 2 black waist
boats, 2 white quarter boats, and 1 stern boat; armed with two pivot
guns between masts,forward, 68-pounders; aft, 110-pounder,rifled; 6
broadside, 32-pounders. She draws 13 feet forward, 15 feet aft. Maga-
zine is about 30 feet abaft foremast, and said to be shot-proof. Crew
said they had about 100 tons coal on board; were short of cabin stores;
officers were messing on salt beef and rice.
	Manned by 23 officers and 130 men; crew much dissatisfied, no prize
money, no liberty, and see no prospect of getting any. Discipline -
very slack, steamer dirty, rigging slovenly. Semmes sometimes pun-
ishes, bnt is afraid to push too bard. Men excited, officers do not report
to captain, crew do things for which would be shot on board American
man-of-war; for instance, saw one of crew strike a masters mate;
crew insolent to petty officers; was told by at least two-thirds of them
that [they] will desert on first opportunity. Crew all scum of Liverpool,
French, Dutch, etc. Alabama is very weak; in any heavy sea her upper
works leak badly; she has a list to port that she may fight her starboard
guns. Fires kept banked; can get full steam in 20 minutes. Except at
muster no tmniforms worn. Crew rugged; keep a lookout at foretop-
gallant yard daytime; at night, two waist lookonts. Officers on duty
have cutlass and revolver; never saw Semmes in uniform; puts on
sword at muster. Have given up small-arm drill afraid to trust crew
with arms. While on board saw drill only once, and that at pivot
guns, very badly done; men ill disposed and were forced to it; lots of
cursing.


Report of Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge,
giving information regarding the C. S. vessels Rappahannock and
Georgia.
U. S. S. KEARSARGE,
Brest, Prance, December 11, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform the Department that I left this port
on the 5th instant on a cruise of reconnoissance in the channel, and
after communicating at Queen stown and Plymouth with our consuls,
and coming to off Cherbourg for information of the Georgia, I returned
to this port on the 11th instant. From advices obtained I learned that
it was doubtful whether the Rappahannocic would go to sea for two or
three weeks. Her crew, it was stated, had left to return to London.
	The bark Agrippina returned, bound to Bermuda; had sailed the
27th ultimo from Plymouth. The steamer Harriet Pinekney was in
dock, having landed her cargo of guns and ammunition to repair
damages. I shall remain in this port, governing my movements in
accordance with the advice of the enclosed letter (as per copy) to Mr.
Dayton.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNO. A. WINSLOW,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary o3c the Navy

Page 563

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION~	563

[Enclosure.]

U.	S. S. KEARSARGE,
Brest, France, December 4, 1863.
	Sin: I dispatched a telegram to you in answer to your letter of the
30th ultimo.
	You will perceive from position that Brest is the best point for inter-
cepting Confederate vessels in the channel, but it is necessary that I
should be immediately informed of their departure by consular agents.
Again, if the information conveyed by letter from Mr. Bigelow be cor-
rect that the Rappahannock and her consorts will rendezvous at the
Azores, the chances of our falling in with her there are very favorable,
but it is necessary that the information shall be reliable, as on our
departure from the channel the Georgia and Florida will immediately
leave port and depredate on onr commerce. The best plan for us is to
remain quiet, as our movements are telegraphed to the Georgia and
Rappahannock, and when either of these vessels sail, or anything of
importance occurs, that I shall be immediately informed of it.
	I will be obliged to you to forward a copy of this letter to Mr. Adams,
that instructions may issue to consuls in England. To Mr. Dudley
there is no need of. No advice is necessaryfor him.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNO. A. WINSLOW,
Captain.
	Hon. Wivr. L. DAYTON,
Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of the U. ~.


The alleged shipment of British snbjects on board the U. A9. A9. Kearsarge.*

Report of Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. B. S. Kearsarge, transmitting corre-
spondence regarding the landing of refugees concealed on board that vessel.

U.	S. S. KEARSARGE,
Brest, France, December 11, 1863.
	Sin: I have the honor to inform you that during the last cruise of the
Kearsarge from this port I took the opportunity of landing at Queens-
town sixteen refugees who secreted themselves on board of this vessel
prior to her departure from that port on the 5th ultimo. The accom-
panying papers afford all information of the character of that act, with
the correspondence which followed.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNO. A. WINSLOW,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
A9eeretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
[Enclosures.]

U.	S. S. KEARSARcfE,
Off Queenstown, December 7, 1863.
	SIR: A party of men, either by connivance of the crew or otherwise,
were concealed on board this vessel on the night of her departure from
Queenstown, the 5th ultimo. These men I learn were in expectation of
being enlisted in the service of the United States after the Kearsarge
had proceeded to sea, but found their mistake. To have turned them
ashore at Brest would have been to open to them the temptation to

See also letter from Mr. Dayton, pp. 498499

Page 564

564	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

enlist on board the Florida. I therefore determined to leave them at
Queenstown as soon as it was practicable. You will please notify
Admiral Jones that I informed him that no enli~ments would be made
at Queenstown. I have therefore sent on shore this party, that no
charge of snbterfuge may be alleged in the premises.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNO. A. WINSLOW,
	E.	G. EASTMAN, Esq., U. ~. Consul, Queenstown.	Captain.

U.	S. S. KEARSARGE,
Qif Queenstown, December 7, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform you that I came to off Qucenstown [or
the purpose of landing sixteen refugees who had concealed themselves
on board this ship prior to her departure from Queenstown on the 5th
of November. I learn here that an attempt has been made to magnify
this circumstance for purposes unfriendly to the United States. I have
therefore given to the American consul my certificate, with a represeu-
tation of the circumstances by the executive officer of this ship, and. I
have directed the consul to hand you a copy of the same.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNO. A. WINsLoW,

Rear-Admiral Sir LEWIS T. JONES,	Captain.

Commanding Her ilifajestys Naval Forces, Coast of Ireland.
Certificate.

	I certify that the U. S. steam sloop Kearsarge arrived in Qneenstown
on the night of the 2d of November, 1863, and that on the following
day I left the ship for Cork. On my return to Queenstown, accompa-
nied by the American consul, I called upon the admiral iu command
and in course of conversation reference was made to a paragraph in
the papers that the Kearsarge had come in for the purpose of enlisting
men, when I informed the admiral that I had received notice from the
executive officer of the Kearsarge that many persons had applied to
be shipped, and in response I had directed him to notify all persons
that no enlistments wauld be made, and instructions were given in
accordance.
	On the night of the 5th of November, while blowing heavy and thick
weather, we went to sea. On the following day report was made to
me that several men had been discovered on board. Investigation
showed that they had concealed themselves in the ship during the
thick and rainy weather of the day and night previous; and disguised
in this way had come out in the ship in hopes of enlistment in the
service of the United States after the ship got to sea. The Kearsarge
was on important duty watching the Florida at Brest, and it was there-
fore impracticable to return the men to Queenstown immediately. I
directed the men to be held at Brest, in apprehension, if they were
turned ashore, they would join the Florida, resolving as soon as the
Kearsarge left Brest again to put them ashore at Cork. The Kearsarge
left Brest again on the 5th of December, and, in accordance with my
resolution, I have this day, the 7th of December, sent sixteen men
ashore in the pilot boat Petrel, with a list of their names as given to the
American consul.
JNo. A. WINSLOW,
Captain

Page 565

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	565

U.	S. S. KEARSARGE,
Off Qucenstown, December 7, 1863.
	SIR: I beg leave to state, in accordance with yohr request, that on
or about the 3d of November, 1863, several men from Queen stown came
on board of this ship as applicants for enlistment in the naval service.
In the absence of yourself and of any definite instructions in regard
to such applications, I told the men that if they were physically quali-
fied for enlistment they might remain on board until your return, when
you would decide. Upon your return your instructions were not to
enlist them. These men were accordingly sent out of the ship. Many
applications of a similar nature were made, but their enlistment was
in every case refused, in accordance with your instructions. During
the time we were at anchor the ship was surrounded by boats filled
with meu desiring to enlist. Orders were given and executed not to
allow them alongside. On the evening of the 5th this was the case
until after dark and until the ship was underway.
	The ship went to sea on the 5th November. It was stormy and
blowing hard.
	In accordance with the usual custom of the ship and with the neces-
sities of the case (as Ii thought), before trippiug the anchor all strangers
were ordered out of the ship. Time master at arms, with the ships
corporal and others of the police force, executed the order, finding men
stowed away in the hold, in the carpenters locker, and elsewhere.
These men were put out of the ship, in some cases by force. As soon
as the ship was reported cleared the anchor was tripped and the ship
went to sea.  On the next day several men were discovered who were
strangers on the ship. These men, probably with the connivance of
some of the crew, had been so secretly concealed as to elude the vigi-
lance of the police force. Upon receiving this information you decided
to land these men at Brest, whither you were bound. These men were
sent out of the ship at Brest,in accordance with this determination,
but, pleading destitution, they returned and were permitted to remain
on board until this morning, when they were returned at Queenstown
by the pilot boat Petrel.
	I would add that the names ~f these men, upon their return to the
ship while in Brest, were placed upon the ships books for the purpose
of their support and comfort, they being otherwise entirely destitute.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAMES S. THORNTON,
Lieutenant- Commander and Executive Officer.
Captain JNo. A. WINSLOW,
Commanding.


U.	S. S. KEARSARGE,
Brest, France, December 11, 1863.
	Siu: Your letter, with enclosed memorandum, is at hand. I have
jfl5t returned from a cruise of reconnoissance up the channel, and while
off Cork landed sixteen men who had secrete(l themselves on board the
Kearsarge some time prior to her departure from Queenstown, the 5th
ultimo.
	I learned from the consul at Queenstown of the seizure of this act by
secession agents to make capital of, amid left with him originals of the
enclosed letter, which will afford you all information in the premises

Page 566

566	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS~-uNION.

	I would beg leave to say that, so far as my action is concerned in this
case, I was so particular as even to send ashore an American seaman
(Boston born), lest it might be said that I had n~t dealt faithfully.
	I should be pleased to receive your views on consideration of this
subject, with any information relating [thereto].
	It is to be regretted that the daily papers could not publish the facts
and disclose the plot of secession agents to prejudice the public mind,
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNO. A. WINSLOW,
	Hon. CHAS. FRANCIS ADAMS,	Captain.
Envoy Extraordinary and ihfinister Plenipotentiary
of the United States, London.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kear-
sarge, to forward report of circumstances of alleged violation of the foreign-enlistmont act.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 29, 1863.
	SIR: The alleged violation of the foreign-enlistment act of Great
Britain by the Kearsarge, by shipping British subjects at Queenstown
for service in the U. S. Navy, has been made the subject of complaint
by the Government of Great Britain. I transmit herewith a copy of a
note addressed to Mr. Adams, on the 30th ultimo, by Earl Russell, giv-
ing the statemeuts that have come to the knowledge of her Majestys
Government respecting the matter. Your especial attention is invited
to the note, and the Department directs that you will report to it, with-
out delay, all the circumstances connected with the matter in question,
with such explanation as the case may require.
Very respectfully, etc.,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Captain JNO. A. WINSLOW	Secretary of the Navy.
Commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge, Brest.


Report of Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge, referring to previous
correspondence regarding the shipment of men for that vessel at Queenstown, Ireland.

U.	S. S. KEARSARGE
Brest, France, February 19, 1864.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of the letter of the
Department covering a communication from Earl Russell to Mr. Adams,
on the subject of certain men alleged to have been enlisted on board
this ship at Queenstown.
	My letter to the Department of December 11, 1863, marked No. 17,
with enclosures, being copies of those sent to Mr. Adams, will afford
all information on the subject, and I beg leave to inform the Depart-
merit that Mr. Adams in
the course adopted. , reply, has expressed his full satisfaction of
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNO. A. WINSLOW,
	Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the .Yavy

Page 567

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	567

Letter from the U. S. consular agent, Cherbourg, France, to Captain
Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge, regarding the

U.	S. CoNSuLAR AGENCY,
Cherbourg, December 12, 1863.
	SIR:	I beg to confirm my letter of the 9th instant.
	The object of these lines is to inform you that the Georgia filled her
water tanks yesterday, 11th, and that this day, 12th, she coaled.
	From the unusual bustle on board I am led to infer an early depar-
ture. I will telegraph to you when it takes place.
I remain, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
EDOUARD LIAIS,
Consular Agent.
	Captain JOHN A. WINSLOW,
Commanding the U. S. S. Kearsarge, Brest.



Letter from Commodore Wilkes, U. S. Navy, to the Secretarg of the Navy,
complaining of injustice done him in his (the Secretarys) annual report
in regard to his detaining the U. S. S. Vanderbilt in the West India
Squadron.
WASHINGTON CITY, December 11, 1863.
	SIR:	To my great surprise, in your official report to the President,
to be laid before Congress, I find my name placed before the country
as the cause ~f the noncapture of the rebel privateers by the detention
of the Vanderbilt iii the West Indies in terms impugning my character
as an officer. Justice to myself and family demand that I should not
keep silence under the imputation so undeservedly cast upon me. I
shall therefore repel the charge in a few words, though I regret that it
is impossible for me in a letter like this to enter into details and show
why the piratical rovers were not captured in the West Indies; but my
correspondence with, and my urgent entreaties often repeated to, the
Department to send me the necessary force in fast and effective vessels
contain my full justification. The failure to capture these vessels in
the West Indies is to be attributed solely to the want of that force.
The blame, therefore, does not rest with me, but elsewhere.
	Upon my return in July last II reported immediately to you, as ordered,
and requested to know why I was relieved. You replied, Policy, and
gave me to infer from your remarks that it was through the action of the
British Government and the influence that had been brought to bear
upon you. This induced me to call upon the Secretary of State, who
assured me that my whole course of conduct had met with the approval
of the State Department, and neither diplomacy nor policy had any-
thing to do with it. Not a word of disapproval have I ever received,
either verbally or in writing, from the Department about the detention
of the Vanderbilt. My surprise was therefore great when I learned it
through your public report. You will undoubtedly recollect that upon
my return in the San Jacinto in December, 1861, I stated to you a plan
for protectina our treasure ships and commerce in the West Indies,
anticipating, as I then did, that man y of them would be captured and
burned, and that this could be obviated by a flying squadron to be
composed of not less than twelve fast steam crs. It was not until nine
months afterwards (September, 1862) that you informed me that yo

Page 568

568	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

iiitended to adopt it and place me in command. I received orders on
the 7th of that month (September) to take four vessels of the James
River flotilla, which had been under steam for mQnths and were ineffi-
cient in many respects. With these, after a few days, and with few
repairs, I was hurried oil. Two other vessels then in the West Indies
were also to join me~ and a promise that as soon as others more effective
could be got ready they would be sent to join me, among which the
Vanderbilt was designated.
	The activity of this small squadron (anything but a flying squadron)
of efficient vessels, through the energy and perseverance of its officers
and crews, is well known, resulting as it did in the entire breaking up
of the business of Nassau, and holding in check blockade runners,
about which the Euglish press made so great an outcry. Instead of
the Vanderbilt joining me immediately, as I anticipated, she made two
unsuccessful cruises after the Alabama in the North Atlantic (during
the last of which the Alabama was already in the West Indies), and
the Vanderbilt did not reach the West Indies for five months, and was
then sent to act independently of me within my command. When I
met her Commander Baldwin showed me, as admiral and commander
in chief of the West India Squadron, his orders, according to the usage
of the service, when I deemed it my duty and for the best interest of
the Government and the objects to be attained to take her as my flag-
ship to enable me to perform the duties assigned memy flagship, the
Waehusett, having entirely broken down, and the Juniata, which was
to have replaced her, not heard from.
	If the Vanderbilts orders had been to proceed directly to the coast of
Brazil, and I had detained her, I might have been to blame, whereas I
only carried out your orders, which read: When you are perfectly sat-
isfied that the Alabama has left the Gulf or West Indies for some other
locality, you will proceed along the coast of Brazil,~ etc. It was there-
fore not my detention of the Vanderbilt, but your own orders that were
carried out, for the certainty of the Alabamas departure was not known
in St. Thomas until the last of May or first of June, and as soon there-
after as the necessary repairs could be completed and coal taken in the
Vanderbilt was sent in pursuit, viz, June 13, under instructions from me
to carry out the orders from yourself, with some suggestions I deemed
might be useful. It is believed that the movements of the Alabama
were known in St. Thomas before they could have been anticipated in
Washington. No vessel could have been more active in the search for
the marauder than the Vanderbilt was while my flag was flying on her.
When I took her under my command she was incapable of making the
cruise you had pointed out, and Commander Baldwin was of opinion
that she would be obliged to return to New York within twenty or
twenty-five days for repairs, but I thought otherwise, and that her
repairs might be effected in ten days at Key West, whither I sent her.
The repairs were partially made and I was enabled to have her fully
equipped and repaired afterwards at St. Thomas, and I made a large
addition to her officers, crew, and marines from my squadron, without
which she could not have been efficient to perform the cruise. All these
facts are shown by the record of the vessel, and wtxe stated in my
dispatches to you.
	The Vanderbilt was not detained a day beyond the limit you had pre-
scribed. I am well satisfied that had you looked into the merits of
the case you would have awarded credit to me instead of impugning
my character as an officer. I was empowered by naval laws and
usages to retain the Vanderbilt if in my judgment I considered it m

Page 569

569
OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.
duty, and I took the responsibility. To have permitted her to cruise
among and in company as her commander might think fit would have
disorganized my squadron and created great discontent among the
officers, and, further, would have prevented that joint action of a fleet
so essential to the successful attaining of the desired object.
	The whole evidence of what the squadron under my command accom-
plished is contained in my written dispatches now on file in the Navy
Department, and I therefore respectfully request that this letter, with
my correspondence dnring my cruise in the West Indies, may be laid
before Congress for my full justification and to show the true cause
want of vessels both in numbers and efficiencywhy the Alabama and
Florida were not captured while in that sea.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHARLES WILKES.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Commodore Wilkes, U. S. Navy,
in regard to the detention of the U. S. S. Vanderbilt in the West India
Squadron uhile under his command.

NAVY DEPART1~EENT, December 15, 1863.
	SIR:	Your communication dated the 11th instant was received yester-
day, in which you express surprise at that part of my annual report
which refers to your disregard of the orders of the Department to com-
mander C. II. Baldwin, of the Vanderbilt, and to your seizure and
detention of that vessel, thereby defeating the plan and purpose of the
Department for the capture of the Alabama.
	That you actually took possession of the vessel and detained her
until the 13th of June in derogation of the instructions of the Depart-
ment, and in opposition to the opinions and wishes of the officer to
whom she was intrusted, are not matters of issue between us. If stat-
ing these facts is impngning your character as an officer, your acts
should have been different to have insured commendation.
	Your letter touches on various subjects, but I am not to be drawn
from the question at issue and led into the discussion of the irrelevant
matters you have introduced. That you might have captured the
Alabama could you have had steamers enough to make it certain I do
not question. That you were constantly asking for more vessels, even
after you had taken possession of the Vanderbilt in derogation of the
orders of the Department, and in bad faith to Rear-Admiral Farragut
retained the Oneida and the 1?. R. Onyler, is admitted.
	You had under your brief command, including the steamers improp-
erly detained, sixteen vessels. My report did not censure you because
you did not capture the piratical rovers, or for any neglect or delinquency
in that respect. You were sent to the West Indies with such force as
the Department, in the exercise of its judgment and in view of its
duties in other respects, thought proper to place under your command
on the cruising ground assigned you, but the Vanderbilt was not a part
of that force, nor was she limited to the West Indies. When, there-
fore, you transcended your authority and interposed yourself between
the Department and another officer on other duty independent of your
command you took upon yourself a responsibility that was wholly ine

Page 570

570	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

cusable. Your conduct was mentioned in my report in as few words
as possible, and with no more censure than a l)lain, brief statement of
the facts conveyed.
	I have no recollection of your advice for twelve fast steamers to com-
pose a flying squadron to guard the treasure ships, which you claim to
have recommended in 1861, yet I do not question that you made the sug-
gestion. As strange and impracticable, though pevhaps not as extrav-
agant, propositions were made by others. One moments reflection should
have satisfied them and you that we had not, in 1861, these twelve
fast steamers to spare, nor armament nor men sufficient for the press-
ing necessities of an efficient blockade. Two years have since elapsed,
and the only treasure ship captured was one Oil an outward voyage
while you were in the vicinity. I made no allusion to this subject in
my report, nor to your failures in any respect, nor am I now to be
diverted from the true question in issue by complaints and speculations
as to what you would have done under certain circumstances. You
prevented the orders of the Department from being carried into execu-
tion elsewhere. At our dilThrent intervic~vs the policy of relieving you
was a subject discussed and on which you manifested much solicitude.
I expressed my gratification that, while there had been some matters
of irritation, I thought that you, in your intercourse with the colonial
and naval authorities, had acquitted yourself in a manner that would
be justified and sustaine(l. Much of the discontent manifested I attrib.
uted to the result of prejudice, growing out of previous transactions.
The subject of the capture of the Peterhoff and Dolphin was reviewed
with the difficulties then pending in consequence of the seizure of
those vessel~. In regard to the Vanderbilt, you attempted to justify
yourself on the ground that you had not a sufficient force; that while
in the West Indies she, being a superior steamer to any of your com-
mand, you had made use of her as an efficient vessel for your purpose;
that she was in no condition to carry out the iustructions of the
Department to Commander Baldwin; that you had repaired her and
put her in the best state in your power, but that in your opinion she
would break down in one month. You exi)ressed your belief that the
Alabama would not proceed in the direction indicated by the Depart-
ment, but that the great object of herself and consorts was the capture
of the treasure ships, and you had no doubt they would soon return
and be committing depredations in the West Indies.
	When you attempt to tell me it was not you who detained the Van-
derbi it, but my orders that were carried out, it is proper I should inform
you that I never authorized you to interl)ret my orders to Commander
Baldwin or to interfere in their execution. The instructions in relation
to the Vanderbilt were confided not to you, but to that officer.
	I did not anticipate that you would be so far unmindful of your duty
as to interrupt the explicit orders of the Department and defeat its
plans; in doing it you were guilty of a grave offense, which has been
treated with great forbearance in relieving you and reporting your
conduct in that respect to the country.
	The request that your lettei, with your correspondence during your
cruise in the West Indies, may be laid before Congress for your full
justification, and to show that the true cause why the Alabama and
Florida were not captured while in that sea, I shall not comply with, not
only because the request is nunsual and improper, but because there is
no such issue. Whatever may have been the causes of your failure to
capture those vessels in the West Indies is not relevant to the question
of dereliction of duty. You took the responsibility of detaining th

Page 571

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	571

Vanderbilt from her destination and failed, notwithstanding that
assumption. In detaining her you defeated the plan of the Depart-
ment, and must not think to escape the conseque~ices of your conduct
by any pretext or claim that you would have succeeded in another
quarter had you not been disappointed. The fact must stand by itseli:,
unconnected with other matters.
Very respectfully,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Commodore CHARLES WILKES, U. S. Navy,
Washington, D. C.



Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Mohican,
transmitting correspondence with the British and United States official.
in the port of Cape Town, Gape Colony.

U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Cape Town, December [16], 1863.
	SIR:	I herewith enclose to the honorable Secretary of the Navy a
letter received from the captain of the port, marked A; also a copy of
my letter to his Excellency the governor of this place, with his answer,
marked B. I would here state that it was absolutely necessary for me
to remain in port for a few days to make repairs and obtain information
of the movements of the piratical vessels.
Jalsoencloseacopyof mylettertoourconsul,withhisanswer.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	S. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosures.]

A.
PORT QFFICE,
Cape Town, December 11, 1863.
	SIR:	I beg to inform you that under the provisions of a proclamation
of his Excellency the governor respecting the arrival and departure
of Federal and Confederate vessels of war in and from the ports of
this colony, it is enacted that any of these vessels shall not remain in
such ports for a longer period than twenty-four hours, unless under
special circumstances, arid in such cases a special authority from his
Excellency must be obtained for remaining in port for a longer period.
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant,
II.	WILSON,
Port Captain.
0.	5. GLISSON, Esq.,
Commanding U. S. Corvette Mohi can.


U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Cape Town, December 12, 1863.
	SIR:	I have received a communication from the captain of the port,
ordering the U. S. S. Mohican out of this harbor within twenty-fou

Page 572

572	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

hours unless an especial permit is granted for her to remain longer. I
have some necessary repairs to make on the boilers and machinery of
this vessel, and shall also want coal. This will r~uire about one week
in this harbor. I hope your Excellency will remove this restriction, so
as to enable me to accomplish the above objects. I have not visited
any English port for thirteen months.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. GLISSON,

	His Excellency Sir PHILIP E. WODETIOUSE Captai~~, U. ~ Navy.
0overnor of Cae Colony, etc.



B.
COLONIAL OFFICE
Cape Town, December .t2, 1863.
	SIR:	I am instructed by his Excellency the governor to acknowl-
edge the receipt of your letter, dated 12th instant, requesting that the
restriction imposed on your stay here by the port captain may be
removed, and to inform you, in reply, that no objection exists to your
remaining in port for such time as may be necessary for the execution
of repairs, or for taking on board the coals needed, and that instruc-
tions have been issued to the port captain accordingly.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
LOUIS A. SERRURIERS,
For the Colonial &#38; cretary.
	Captain 0. S. GLISSON,
U.	~ AS. Mohi can.


U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Cape Town, December 11, 1863.
	SIR:	I have this moment anchored in this harbor, and am in chase
of the Alabama, Georgia, and Tuscaloosa. Will you do me the favor
to give me all the information in your possession in relation to the
movements of these piratical vessels l ~y boat is at your service and
I shall be glad to welcome you on board of the llfohican.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	0. S. GLISSON,
	WALTER cTRAHAM, Esq.,	Captain, U. IS. Navy.
U.	IS. Consul, Cape Town, Cape of Good Hope.



U. S. CONSULATE, CAPE TOWN,
Cape of Good Hope, December 16, 1863.
	SIR:	Your letter of the 11th instant was duly received, and I now
proceed to supply the required data in relation to the movements of
United States war vessels and Confederate privateers on this coast:
July 27.The Alabama arrived on thc coast.
	July 28.The Rover reports her at Cape Town. The same day the
Alabama enters Saldanha Bay

Page 573

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	57&#38; 

	August 4.The Atlas reports her there.
	August 5.The Alabama captures the Sea Bride at the entrance of
Table Bay, and afterwards comes to anchor in the harbor. In the night
her Majestys steamer Valorous comes around here to Table Bay,. from
Simons Bay, by order of the governor.
	August 7.The Sea Bride, which has been standing off and on near
the scene of her capture, disappears.
	August 8.The Tuscaloosa, alias Conrad, enters Simons Bay.
August 9.The Alabama goes around to Simons Bay; she boards the
American bark Martha lVenzell, but lets her go because she is 1 mile
inside the headlands of False Bay.
	August 15.The Alabama and Tuscaloosa leave Simons Bay.
	August 16.The Georgia arrives there.
	August 17.The Tuscaloosa and Sea Bride are seen at Saldanha in
company with the Alabama.
	August 19.They all leave that place. The same day the governor,
ignorant of this, sends the Valorous there to order them off.
	August 23.The Tuscaloosa and Sea Bride arrive at Angra Pequefia,
and the former commences to discharge cargo.
	August 27 and 28.Several American merchantmen, which had been
blockaded, make their escape from Table Bay and Simons Bay, though
the Georgia was at the latter port.
	August 29.The Georgia leaves Simons Bay. (No more heard of on
this coast.)
	August 30.The Vanderbilt enters Simons Bay at 10 oclock a. m.
Learning from the pilot that the Georgia had just left, she started in
pursuit.
	August 31.The Tuscaloosa leaves Angra Pequefia on a cruise. (No
positive information about her since.)
	September 3.The Vanderbilt returns to Simons Bay.
	September 7.She sails for Cape Agnlhas and afterwards for
Mauritius.
	September 11.The Alabama returns from Angra Pequefia to Simons
Bay to coal.
	September 12.The Sea Bride leaves Angra Pequefia for Madagascar
with two.thirds of her cargo.
	September 15.The Alabama leaves Simons Bay. (No authentic infor.
mation of her after.)
	September 24.The Vanderbilt arrives at Mauritius.
	October 8.She leaves that place.
	October 22.She arrives here in Table Bay and is refused coal.
	October 23.About this date the Earl of ]Jiiar and Kelly (British)
sails for Aberdeen from Angra Pequelia, with half the Tascaloosas
cargo.
	October 25.The Vanderbilt leaves here for Angra Pequefia.
	October 31.She captures the Saxon (British) with the other half [of]
the ~ cargo.
	November 1.She seizes 2tiO tons of coal on Penguin Island, which
was sent there by the Confederate agents, and proceeds on her cruise.
	December 15.Intelligence received here from Madagascar of the
arrival of a vessel corresponding to the Sea Bride, and that the cargo
was being sold and the vessel up for sale.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
WALTER GRAHAlVI,
U.	S. Consul.
	Captain 0. 5. GLmISoN, U. S. Navy

Page 574

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

[Telegram.]

MARE ISLAND, CAL., December 16, 1863.
(Received at Washington 7:30 p. in.)
	Narragansett sailed on the 11th for Victoria on special service.*
C.	H. PooR,
Commodore.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES, Secretary Navy.


Report of Captasn Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. ]ifohiean, of
the arrival of that vessel at Cape Town, Cape Colony, from a cruise in
search of ~Jonfederate vessels.
U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Cape Town, December 19, 1863.
	SIR: I have to report to the honorable Secretary of the Navy the
arrival of the U. S. S. hliohican at this port after cruising for thirty-one
days between the Cape of Good Hope and Rio without seeing or hear-
ing anything of the piratical vessels. We have one report at this place
that the Georgia has arrived at Cherbourg, in France, and that the
Alabama has gone north. Another report is that the Alabama is in the
East Indies. The reports are so conflicting that it is almost impossible
to know what to do. If she has gone to the East Indies she will soon
be chased out of that sea by the Wyoming.
	I shall leave this port this day on a cruise, touching at St. Helena,
island of Trinidad, and return to Rio abont the 25th of January, 1864:~
where I hopd to get some authentic information of the pirates, so that
I can go in chase of them. The boilers of this ship are getting so bad
that it will be impossible to follow up the vessels much longer. The day
previous to onr coming out this port, with only 11 pounds of steam on,
we blew a hole in the port boiler and were compelled to haul the fires
and to remain one week in this port for repairs. I herewith enclose
you a letter from the chief engineer of this ship, showing the state of
the boilers, which are such that it is not safe to go so long a voyage as
to the East Indies.
I am very respectfully, your obedient servant,

Captain, U. S. Navy.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 21, 1863.
	It is believed that a design exists to seize some of the outgoing
steamers from New York. During the next ten days, commencing
to-morrow, you will have stationed one armed steamer at Throgs Neck
and another at Sandy Hook or just below the Narrows, as most con-
venient, with orders to arrest and detain every steamer not having a
pass from the U. S. marshal of New York, Robert Murray.
GIDEON WELLES,
[Secretary of the Navy.]
	Rear-Admiral PAULDINc~
C~ommandant New Yo~k Navy Yard.

See letter. from Acting Rear-Admiral Bell, January 9, 1864, p. 583

Page 575

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	575

Letter from the U. S. consular agent at Cherbourg, France, to Captain
Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kear%sarge, regarding the
preparation of the C. S. S. Georgia.

U. S. CONSULAR AGENCY,
Cherbourg [France], December 21, 18G3.
	DEAR SIR: I beg to confirm my letter of the 19th instant.
	The Georgia has just taken on board 90 tons English coal from a
French vessel.
	I am informed by one of the mechanics of the dockyard, employed at
the repairs of the Georgias machinery, that the performance of their
work will require one more week.
	1 remain, dear sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
EDOUARD LIAIS,
Consular Agent.
Captain JOHN A. WINSLOW,
Commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge, Brest [France].



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of the cruise of the flagship Powhatan.

FLAGSHIP POWUATAN,
Havana [Cuba], December 23, 18G3.
	SIR: I hav~ the honor to report the arrival of this ship on the 22d
instant, for the purpose of procuring an outboard delivery valve to
replace one that had been lost on the passage out. I shall proceed
hence to Key West to put this valve in its place, the ship having been
kept light for that purpose, and return to Cape Haitien [Haiti], prob-
ably by the 10th of next month.
	In the passage to Havana the circuit of the island of Haiti was made
and its principal ports visited.
	At Porto Plata the Spanish troops were confined to the fort by the
insnrgents. The town, being adjacent to the fort, had been destroyed
by one or both parties, the better to attack or defend the place. There
were no consuls or foreign residents and no shipping at that port.
	At the city of San Domingo, in communicating with our consul, he
reports no American vessels there, except the steamer Tubal Cain, of
New York, under English colors. The people dwelling outside the walls
of this city had been driven in by the Dominicans, or had joined them.
The Spanish troops, except in large force, were unable to go into the
country.. Our consul had no complaints to make, and speaks in high
terms of the present Spanish governor.
	At Aux Cayes there was but little American commerce.
	At Port an Prince, in company with our commissioner, Mr. Whidden,
I visited President Geifrard.
	At the different ports of Haiti three fine Spanish steam frigates were
met with. Their captains were very prompt and cordial iii extending
more than the usual ceremonies and courtesies to the flag.
I am, very respectfnlly, yonr obedient servant,
J.	L. LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West india Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Yavy

Page 576

57~
OPE1~ATIOl~S OF Tfl1~ CRt1ISI~RStJNION.
Report of Commander Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Van-
derbilt, of the arrival of that vessel at St. Thomas, West Indies, from
cruising in search of Confederate vessels.

U.	S. S. VANDERBILT,
St. Thomas [West Indies], December 23, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of this ship liere on tlie
21st instant.
	I sailed from Bahia on the 4th instant and proceeded to Pernambuco,
where I remained two days, and then went on to Fernando de Noronha,
where I communicated with the shore. At neither of these places has
any further information been received of privateers.
	I crossed the line in 31~ W., and, keeping as much as possible in the
track of homeward-bound ships, spoke some, but got no news.
	Arrived at Barbados on the 19th; communicated with our consul
withoat anchoring, but obtained no information. I communicated with
our consul at St. Pierre on the morning of the 20th and came on here.
I am now employed coaling, and as I see by the late English news-
papers another privateer has got away from Calais, and also quite a
number of fast blockade runners have or are on the eve of starting for
Bermuda and Nassau, I have decided to take in more coal than I had
intended and on my way to New York go first off Nassau for a few
days, as I shall get off there at the best timethat is, when there is no
moon. From Nassau I propose going off Bermuda and cruise there as
long as my coal will last, and then go to New York. I hope the Depart-
ment will a4pprove this course.
	I shall be employed in getting boilers in sufficiently good shape for
some days, but shall probably get away by the 1st January.
	I enclose copies of my last commuiiication from Bahia, and have the
honor to be, respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. H. BALDWIN,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Commander Baldwin, U S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Van-
derbilt, transmitting report of board of survey regarding coal taken by
that vessel from Penguin Island, A

U.	S. S. VANDERBILT,
St. Thomas [West Indies], December 23, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to enclose the report of the officers appointed
a board of survey to report upon the amount and value of the coal
taken on board this ship from Penguin Island (Angra Pequefla)
and supposed to belong to the rebel privateer Alabama.
I have the honor to be, sir, your obedient servant,
C. II. BALDWIN,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosure.]

U.	S. S. VANDERBILT,
At Sea, November 11, 1863.
	SIR: In obedience to your order of the 10th November, 1863, appoint-
ing us a board of survey to decide upon the quantity, quality, an

Page 577

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS--UNION.	577

value of the coal taken at Penguin Island (Angra Pequefia) for the use
of this ship, we have well considered the matter, and have to report
as follows:
	We believe the quantity to have been about 293 tons, at which con-
clusion we arrived by the number of bags, 5,128, and the average
weight of the bags, 128 pounds. We believe the coal to be of that
quality known as the Hartley coal, and inferior for use in this ship to
the Cardiff coal.
	Judging of its value from its inferiority to Cardiff coal, and the price
paid for the latter at Cape Town, we think that $13 per ton would be
a fair estimate of its value, that being also the price charged at Cape
Town for coal of the same quality, and at which place there were large
quantities of the different kinds of coal.
Very respectfully, your obedient servants,
JOSEPH D. DANELS,
Acting Lieutenant, U. S. Navy.
JOHN GERIVIAIN,
Chief Engineer.
JAMES E. TOLFREE,
Acting Assistant Paymaster.

	Commander C. H. BALDWIN, U. S. Navy,
U.	S. S. Vanderbilt.



Report of the commandant navy yard, New York, regarding stations
assigned to U. S. steamers Vicksburg and Peterhoffi

NAVY YARD, NEW YORK,
December 23, 1863.
	SIR: Under the Departments order of the 21st instant, the Vicks-
burg, Lieutenant-Commander Braine, is stationed at Sandy Hook, where
she will remain until relieved. The Peterhoff, Acting Volunteer Lieu-
tenant Pickering, will this day be stationed at Throgs Neck, in the
sound.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
H.	PAULDING,
Commandant.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 26, 1863.
	The U. S. marshal says that vessels entering New York are stopped
by guard ship at Throgs Neck. Inward-bound vessels need not be
stopped at either point.
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary Navy.
	Rear-Admiral PAULDING,
Commandant Navy Yard, New York.
N W RYOL II3

Page 578

578	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding West
india Squadron, regarding convoy of California steamers.

FLAGSHIP POWHATAN,
Havana, December 28, 1863.
	SIR:	The Rhode Island has been reported so defective in a part of
her engines as to be unable to keep way with the California steamers,
although she meets them as usual at the island of Mariguana.
	The returning ships with treasure pass now by the same route.
	I beg, therefore, to suggest, if the Department intends to continue
this convoy, that a steamer be sent to take the place of the Rhode
Island while her defects are being made good at a Northern port.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	L. LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.
[Endorsement.]

Neptune ordered.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of the arrival of flagship Powhatan at Key West for
repairs.

FLAGSHIP POWHATAN,
Key West, December 29, 1863~
	SIR:	I have the honor to report the arrival of the Powhatan at Key
West for some slight repairs and for coal, after completing which I shall
leave for Matauzas and Cape Haitien.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant~~~ L. LARDNER,

Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.



Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Sanford, U. S. Navy,
to proceed to the West Indies.

NAvy DEPARTMENT, December 29, 1863.
	SIR: As soon as the U. S. S. Neptune is ready for sea proceed with
her with all practicable dispatch to the West Indies and report to Act-
ing Itear-Adiniral James L Larduer for duty in the squadron under his
command. The coal depot for the squadron is at Cape Haitien [Haiti],
where you may find Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner or obtain informa-
tion of his movements.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.
Commander Jo8. P. SANFORD, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Neptune, New York

Page 579

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	579


Order of the Secretary of the Nacy to Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, com-
manding U. S. S. Kearsarge, regarding the interception of the C. S. S.
Rappahannock.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 28, 1863.
	SIR: The Department has received your letter of the 3d instant,
enclosing copy of a communication addressed to you by the assistant
secretary of legation at Paris relative to the I? appahannock.
	You must exercise your discretion and best judgment in such steps as
you may take to intercept the Rapnahannock or other rebel vessels.
	Very respectfully, etc.,	GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.
Captain JNO. A. WINSLOW,
Commanding U. S~ S. Kearsarge, Brest, France.


Instructions from the Secretary of the Navy to Acting Rear-Admiral
Bell, commanding Pacific Squadron, regarding measures of protection
for the city of San Francisco.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, December 31, 1863.
	SIR: Californians visiting the Department have expressed much
anxiety with regard to the safety of that city (San Francisco) from
sudden attack from sea, and for the purpose of allaying their fears and
giving greater security to that important city the Department woald
be glad if yqu could so arrange your force as to keep one of your ves-
sels constantly there.
	The Wateree, Commander F. K. Murray, will sail in the course of
ten days or a fortnight to join your squadron, and it is contemplated
to dispatch another steamer to you at an early day.
Very respectfully, etc.,
	GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHAS. II. BELL,
Commanding Pacific Squadron, Panama, New Granada.


Letter from C. A. Stetson, esq., to the Assistant Secretary of the Navy,
requesting protection for the sound steamers.

ASTOR HOUSE,
New York. December 31, 1863.
	DEAR SIR: The sound captains are anxious that a steam war vessel
should be stationed off Montauk, or so placed as to command the
entrance to the sound.
	They say that their vessels and passengers, with valuable cargoes,
might be captured in one night; that New London, Stonington, etc.,
would be burned; that the vast interests on the sound are entitled to
protection.
	Thus, in briet; without argument or reasons, though they be as thick
as blackberries, 1, at their request, present this business. Pray send a
good vessel down there.
Ever yours, truly,
C.	A. STETSON.
G.	V. Fox, E sq.,
Assistant Secretary of the Navy, U. S. A

Page 580

580	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Commander Sanford, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Nep-
tune, acknowledging receipt of sailing orders.

U.	S. S. NEPTUNE,
Off Navy Yard, Brooklyn, January 4, 1864.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of orders, dated
December 29, 1863, to proceed with the Neptune as soon as she is ready
for sea to the West Indies and report to Acting licar-Admiral James
L. Lardner for duty in the squadron under his command. I expect to
sail to-morrow for destination.
	The delay in not sailing earlier is owing to some necessary work
being done upon the engines.
	it was my impression, till to-day, that I had acknowledged the receipt
of my sailing orders the day of their receipt.
I have the honor to be, respectfully, your obedient servant,
	J. P. SANFORD,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington City, D. C.


Report of Lieutenant-Commander McCauley, U. S. Navy, commanding
U.	S. S. Tioga, of the capture by that vessel of a suspicious schooner
near the Bahama Islands.
U.	S. S. TiocfA,
Off Great Bahama island, January 4, 1864.
	SIR: This morning at 10 oclock, while lying off S. W. point of Great
Bahama Island, a schooner was reported in sight, and shortly after-
wards was distinctly seen coming down before the wind, heading about
N. W. As soon as we started in chase she hauled by the wind, head-
ing toward S. E. point. On coming within range a blank cartridge was
fired to bring her to. Mr. Brisco boarded, and reported her as having on
board a cargo of salt, liquors, coffee, arms, shoes, and cigars, bound
from Nassau to Havana. I have seized her on the grounds that she
was out of the route for vessels bound to the southward from New
Providence- that her cargo is manifestly contraband of war and of
export in Havana, not import; that she hauled her wind when chased,
evidently with the intention of getting within the limits of foreign
jurisdiction to evade capture; and also that information received by
me points to her as one of five schooners which have been preparing
to mn the blockade from Nassau. The masters assertions about hav-
ing been obliged to stand off to the northward in consequence of calms,
etc., which he made to me, are untrue, as during the past night the
Tioga was hove to off the Jsaacs, when it blew a moderate breeze.
The !Iiioga and her prize were over 5 miles from the nearest land at the
time of the capture by bearings and estimated gun range, and was
about 85 miles to the northward of the port of clearance, standing
directly for the blockaded coast, about Indian River.
	The captain, when first boarded, pretended that he could not speak
English, but he has since been able to express his views fluently.
I am, very respectfudly, your most obedient servant,
E.	Y. MCCAULEY,
Lieutenant-6ommander, U. S. Navy, Commanding U. S. S. Tioga.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Nivy, Washington, D. C

Page 581

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	581

Letter from Messrs. Revely &#38; Go. to Messrs. B. D. Morgan &#38; Go., New
York, regarding depredations committed by the G S. S. Alabama in
the vicinity of the East India Islands.

PENANG- [STRAIT OF MALACCA], January 7, 1864.
	DEAR SIRS: The overland mail from Europe, now ten days overdue,
still keeps out, and in the absence of intelligence from that quarter con-
siderable excitement has been occasioned here by the further depreda-
tions of the rover Alabama in this neighborhood, and an account of
which we have thought might prove of interest.
	The captains and part of the crews of the American ships Sonora,
of Kewburyport, 707 tons, and Highlander, of Boston, 1,049 tons,
arrived here on the 30th ultimo in boats (after being assisted on their
way by several vessels), and report that they left Singapore on the 17th
idem on the way to Akyab [British Burmah] in ballast, to fulfill rice
charters for Europe, under which they were engaged, and that on the
morning of the 26th, while weighing anchor about 10 miles east of the
North Sands light-ship, in the Strait of Malacca (about latitude 30 N..
longitude 1010 E.), they were overhauled by the steamer Alabama,
whose officers reported that they were in search of both ships, having
been informed of their movements, and having in fact been watching
them on the previous days. The crews were removed to the Alabama,
by whose commander the chronometer, all charts, nautical instruments,
etc, were confiscated, and the ships were then fired and destroyed.
The captains of the two vessels only were allowed to come on board.
The captain~of the Highlander was allowed water; the other boats,
three in number, were turned adrift without food or water, and have
not since been heard of. The captains (having subsequently united in
the boat which arrived here) bronght with them first and second offi-
cers of the Highlander and six of her crew and the first officer of the
Sonora. The third officer of the Highlander was drowned while hauling
up the boat to a French bark bound for Madras, which picked up the
company and brought them some distance on the way. All the above,
with the exception of the captain of the Highlander, were sent on to
Calcutta on the 31st ultimo by the U. S. consular agent here per
steamer Cheduba. They were informed on board the Alabama that that
vessel had destroyed on the day previous (25th ultimo) a bark lately
under American colors and called the Texan kitar, but at the time of
capture sailing under British flag and having British register and hail-
ing from Maulmain as the Martaban. We are informed by her agents
here that the bark was laden at Maulmain with rice for Hongkong by
Mr. Abraham Cohn and that the cargo was British property. It was
reported on board the Alabama that the captain of the Martaban had
unfortunately kept a copy of his letter to his owners advising them
that he had changed the flag to avoid risk of capture, upon sight of
which document the bark was at once fired.
	The Alabama, when last seen, at noon of the 26th ultimo, was going
off at full speed in the direction of Acheen Head. Her captain stated
that he expected that his acts in this quarter would draw the Wyoming
back from Java, where he supposed her then to be, and that he would
thus be enabled to pass around Sumatra and have a second cruise in
the Strait of Sunda. The Alabama, having recently repaired and
coaled in Singapore, was prepared for a three or four weeks cruise.
	The captain of the Sonora saw a Singapore pilot boat lashed to the
Alabamas davit, and recognized a dubash on board whom he had ftc-
quently seen iii Singapore. This prow was seen standing back in the
-	direction of Singapore on the following day

Page 582

582	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	The Sonora was owned by Messrs. J. M. Cashing &#38; Co., of Newbury-
port, and the Highlander was owned by Messrs. E. 1). Peters &#38; Co of
Boston. * * *
	American ships have been brought into disfavor by the state of
affairs above described, and local offices refuse to take any risks under
thefiag. * * *
We remain, dear sirs, yours, faithfully,
REVELY &#38; Co.
	Messrs. E. B. MORGAN Co~~York.




Report of the commandant navy yard, New York, transmitting request
from Lieutenant-Commander Braine, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Vwks burg, for the use of a tug in New York Harbor.

NAVY YARD, NEW YORK, January 9, 1864.
	SIR:	I enclose a communication from Lieutenant-Commander Braine,
commanding U. S. S. Vicksburg, stationed at the Narrows to examine
outward-bound vessels, and in accordance with his representations I
have authorized him to employ a small steam tug, if he shall find it
necessary, on the best terms he can procure one.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	H. PAIJLDING,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commandant.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.
[Enclosure.]

U.	S. S. VICKSI3URG,
Off Stapleton, Staten Island, January 7, 1863[4].
	SIR:	In reply to the communications referred to me by you I have
to state that the U. S. S. Tficksburg now lies off Stapleton, Staten
Island, in a convenient position to speak or board all vessels proceed-
ing to sea. I beg leave to bring to your notice that the floating ice
will soon render it impossible for me to board steamers without great
risk, and perhaps loss of life. A small tug would render the duty (now
fatiguing and dangerous) comparatively easy.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
B.	L. BRAINE,
	Lieutenant- Commander.
Rear-Admiral HIRAM PAULDING
Commandant NavyYard, Yew York.


Report of Commander Sanford, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Nep
tune, of the departure of that vessel for the West Indies.

U.	S. S. NEPTUNE,
Off Navy Yard, Brooklyn, January 9, 1864.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform the Department that I sail this a. m.
for the West Indies, obedient to my orders of December 29, 1863.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, ~ ~ SANFORD,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington City, D. C

Page 583

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	583

Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific
Squadron, of the rumored fitting out at Victoria, Vancouver island, of
a Confederate privateer.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Acapulco, Mexico, January 9, 1864.
	SIR:	On my arrival here on the 7th instant I received a communica-
tion from Commodore Charles II. Poor, at San Francisco, stating that
General Wright, commanding the Department of the Pacific, had
addressed a letter to Captain Seifridge, commandant of the navy yard
at Mare Island, informing him that the commanding officer of the
Department of Oregon had communicated to him that the American
consul at Yictoria, Vancouver Island, had iiiforination of a privateer
fitting out at that port for the purpose of capturing the steamers carry.
ing treasure on this coast, and begging that the Saginaw might be sent up
as soon as possible to watch her movements and prevent her getting to
sea. Captain Selfridge referred the letter to Commodore Poor, as the
senior officer present. As soon as the Narragansett, then under repairs,
could be made available, Commodore Poor dispatched her to Yictoria,
with instructions to Commander Woodworth to obtain from the U. S.
consul all the information possible in regard to this affair. Should he
find the statement true, Commander Woodworth has instructions to
prevent such vessel from getting to sea, or capture her, if possible,
when it can be done without the infringement of neutral rights.
	To fill up the complement of the crew of the Narragansett, sailors and
marines were transferred to her from the Saranac and the navy yard.
She sailed f;om San Francisco December 11, 1863. lt is a most fortu-
nate circumstance that the Narragansett was at San Francisco, the only
available ship to perform this duty. I would most respectfully urge on
the Department to either annul the order to send the Narragansett to
Boston or furnish me with another vessel to supply her place. I would
also respectfully suggest the expediency of having at all times a small
steamer, under the direction of the commandant of the navy yard, ready
to be dispatched at a few hours notice whenever a similar occasion
arises. The want of a vessel so prepared may be of incalculable injury
to the mercantile interests of our western coast.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully,
CHAS. Th BELL,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Letter from the U. S. consul at Havre, France, to Captain Winslow, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S S. Kearsarge, regarding proposed attack upon
that vessel by th3 C. S. steamers Georgia, Florida, and Rappahannock.

U S. CONSULATE,
Ilavre [France], January 9, 1864.
	SIR:	I beg to say that it has come to my knowledge that a letter was
received here yesterday in town, from one of the lieutenants of the
Georgia, stating that it was the purpose of the commanders of the Geor-
gia, the Florida, and Rappahannock to re~idezvous at some convenient
and opportune point for the purpose of attacking the Kearsarge after
she has left Brest

Page 584

584	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I thought it proper to state this to you, although of course you will
best know how much importance to attach to the information or to the
purpose.
I am, sir, with much respect, your obedient servant,
JAMES 0. PUTNAM,
U.	S. Consul.
COMMANDER OF THE U. S. SLOOP OF WAR KEARSARGE.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, in relation to the observance of neutrality in connec-
tion with Spanish disturbances on the island of San Domingo.

FLAGSHIP POWUATAN,
Cape Haitien [Haiti], January 15, 1864.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your dispatch
of November 28, referring to a recent communication addressed to the
Secretary of State by Mr. Tassara, miiiister plenipotentiary of her
Catholic Majesty, in which it is represented that the Spaiiish Govern-
ment has reason to apprehend that expeditions have departed or may
depart from the United States to engage or mingle in the war which is
raging in a portion of the island of San Domingo.
	The directions of the Department shall be carried out with the inten-
tion and vigilance that the subject demands.
	II take the occasion to state that no reports have reached me of any
vessels of otir countrymen being engaged in violating the neutrality
laws to the injury of the contending parties in this island. But it is
well known that many from the English ports of Nassau and Turks
Island [Bahamas] are engaged iii the business. One of them, a noted
blockade runner between Charleston and Nassau, has been lately cap-
tured by the Spaniards.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	L. LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Mohican,
of the arrival of that vessel at Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, transmitting
correspondence with the U. S. consul at James Town, St. Helena, regard-
ing movements of Confederate vessels.

U.	S. S. MOITICAN,
Rio [de Janeiro], January 16, 1864.
	SIR: I have to report to the honorable Secretary of the Navy the
arrival of the U. S. S. Mohican at this port from the Cape of Good
Hope, having touched at the islands of St. Helena and Trinidad.
Enclosed you have a copy of my letter to our consul, with his answer,
in which you will see that the Alabama is in the East Indies.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 585

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	585

[Enclosures.]

U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
James Town, St. Helena, Vecember 29, 1863.
	Sin:	I have this moment anchored in this harbor, and am in chase
of the Alabama, Georgia, and Tuscaloosa. Will you do me the favor
to give me all the information in your possession in relation to the
movements of those piratical vessels ~ My boat is at your service, and
I shall be glad to welcome you ou board of the Mohi can.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S. N~tvy.
	GEO. GERARD, Esq.,
U.	S. Consul, St. Helena.


CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
St. Helena, December 30, 1863.
	Sin: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your communi-
cation of yesterday~s date.
	In answer, I am sorry it is not in my power to give you such informa-
tion as you might desire to assist you in the chase of the piratical ves-
sels you alluded to. -
	As to the Alabama, however, Captain Coun, of the British ship Alma,
from Java, reported at this consulate on the 18th instant that on the
26th October last, latitude 1O~ 28 5., longitude 1O2~ 4 B. (Greenwich),
he was boarded by the Alabama, and he was informed by the board-
ing officers that their intention was to cruise in the Chinese waters.
	1 take this opportunity to thank you for your polite invitation to
visit your ship, which invitation I accepted yesterday.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,	G. GERARD,

U.	S. Consul.
	Captain 0. 5. GLISSoN,
Commander of the U. S. S. Mohican.


Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Mohican, of
collision of that vessel with the American ship Grey Eagle, and of sup-
posed whereabouts of C. S. S. Georgia and bark Tuscaloosa.

U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Rio [de Janeiro], January 16,1864.
	SIR: I have to report to the honorable Secretary of the Navy that on
the 14th January, 1864, we came in collision with the American ship
Grey Eagle. All the l)articulars are embraced in the reports of the
officers of the watch, marked A, and the report of the surveyhig offi-
cers, marked B. Everything was done that officers and men could do
to prevent the collision. The moment the alarm was given every officer
and man sprang to the deck, without waiting to put on their clothes, to
be in readiness to render assistance, and II have never seen more cool-
ness displayed than was shown on this occasion.
	if there is any blame to be attached to any person it rests on the
master of the Grey Eagle, for he surely should have huffed his ship
instead of keeping her away. This accident took place in latitude
220 11 5., longitude 390 39 W.
	It will cost to repair damages, as per survey, about $400. I hope to
have all repairs complete in the course of a week

Page 586

586	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	It is rel)orted that the Georgia is at Cherbonrg [France]. The Tus-
caloosa is yet supposed to be on this coast. As soon as I learn that she
has left the coast I shall leave for Philadelphia. ~
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
		0.8. GLISSON,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	 Captain, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the ATavy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kear-
sarge, of the movements of that vessel in view of the preparation of the
C. S. S. Florida for an early departure from Brest, France.

U.	S. S. KEARSARGE,
Brest, France, January 16, 1864.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform the Department that the Florida
came out into the roads on the 26th ultimo, making every preparation
for an early departure, as it was reported. In accordance with my
advice to the I)epartment, to sail in advance of her I left three days
afterwards, and have continued until to-day cruisin~ about the mouth
of the different entrances to this port or seeking shelter in the bays of
the island of Onessant [Ushant]. Yesterday, by message sent to the
American consular agent, I learned that the trial trip of the Florida on
the 8th instant had been very unsatisfactory, and as a consequence
various mokfications had been directed, which would occupy a still
longer period before she could be ready for service.
	I learned also that most of the officers had again been changed.
Commander Barney had been relieved by Commander Morris.
	On receiving this information I determined to enter port, take a sup.
ply of water, as our condensers were a little out of order, and proceed
immediately to Cadiz for provisions. I would state to the Department
that neither beef, pork, tobacco, nor some other articles of the rations
can be procured here, and it is only by a frugal management that our
supplies have lasted. The blockade has, however, exhausted all but
twelve days provisions.
	I shall leave to-morrow for Cadiz, provision, and return as soon as
practicable. I have reason to think that the rebel cruisers will view our
departure as again returning to blockade, or to reconnoiter in the
channel.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNO. A. WINSLOW,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander Baldwin, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Fan-
derbilt, of the arrival of that vessel at New York from cruising in search
of blockade runners.
U.	S. S. VANDERBILT
New York, January 17, 1864.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival here of this ship.
	I had last this honor from St. Thomas [West Indies], under date of
December 23, a duplicate of which I enclos

Page 587

OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSUNION.	587

	I left St. Thomas on the morning of the 1st instant, and, as I then
reported, went off Nassau.
	At daylight of the 6th instant, being then about~0 miles east of the
Hole in the Wall light, lying to, made a steamer about 7 miles distant;
gave chase, when she altered her course a little, but rather crossing my
bow. This enabled me to gain on her until I opened on her with my
forward rifle the shots fell short, but she immediately commenced
throwing overboard bales of cotton, of which in all I think she must
have thrown nearly, if not quite, 200 bales.
	After this I gained little, if any. My last shot, however, fell close
alongside her,wheelhonse, after which she increased the distance, being
enabled to go close round ~ reef through the green water, which this
ships draft wonld not permit.
	We carried all the steam (18 l~ounds) which the chief engineer thought
was safe in the miserable state of our boilers. 1 continaed the chase
until the steamer was well up to Douglas Channel [New Providence],
leading to Nassau. I afterwards picked up 50 bales cotton, several
wrecking schooners having got the balance.
	I would respectfully ask what disposition I shall make of these 50
bales cotton, and also 1 bale of wool, taken from on shore at Angra
Pequelia, and supposed to be part of the cargo of the American bark
Conrad, the cotton not being ordinary prize, but found floating.
	The steamer was, say, 900 tons, small side-wheels and two smoke-
stacks. I think after she lightened she went fully 13 knots, the water
being very smooth. Had our boilers not been so far run down we
should have ~anght her readily.
	I now shifted mny station to a point, say, 120 miles north of Abaco,
in the track from Wilmington [N. C.], in order to have a larger run in
case of seeing another, which I did in the forenoon of the 10th instant,
making her smoke, say, 25 muiles off, and went for her, but in a few
minutes, when we had only got the steam up to 14 pounds, one of the
forward boilers gave way badly in the lower part, half filling the fire
room with boiling water, but fortunately not scalding any of the firemen.
	We went on with the three boilers, but gained but little on her. In
the course of three hours we succeeded iim driving a wooden wedge in,
which it was thought would stand, and went on again full speed, gradu-
ally getting steam up to 22 pounds. We now gained on her fast, and at
sunset she was but, say, 7 to 8 miles distant, but the night being dark
we lost her, though we kept on her supposed course till 12:30 oclock,
having chased 200 miles. This vessel seemed a duplicate of the other,
and I think after dark lowered her smokestacks.
	The comparatively high steam we carried caused the bottoms of the
boilers to leak badly, and also the starboard shaft to open perceptibly,
amid in the latter part several of the tubes gave way.
	Although rather disheartened by this nonsuccess, I kept in the neigh-
borhood for two days longer, when, my stock of coal getting low, I went
on nenrly to Wilmington, but saw nothing, and thence omm here.
	Had the Vanderbilts boilers been anything like what they were when
she left home, nowa year since, we should have readily caught both
those steamers; for although they were very fast, yet, when iii order,
the Vanderbilt could beat either of them from 2 to 2~ miles per hour.
At the time of both chases the water was as smooth as a river, which,
of course, was greatly to their advantage.
	The times of 130 of my crew are out; about 60, including petty offi-
cers, have still some time to serve

Page 588

588	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	Should this ship be required for immediate service, it is the opinion
of the chief engineer she can be thoroughly repaired within two months
(by working at night also) if put in the hanTh of oie of the large
works. In that case she should be in the neighborhood of the shop.
	As I presume a survey on the state of her boilers and shaft will be
ordered, I think it unnecessary to go into detail of her repairs. The
engine and ship otherwise are in good order.
	I have the honor to be, sir, respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	H. BALDWIN,

Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, com-
manding U. S. S. Mohican, to return to the United States from Bahia,
Brazil.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 18, 1864.

	SIR: On the receipt hereof, return with the U. S. steam sioop ilfohican
to Philadelphia, by the way of the West indies. After leaving the
West Indies you will go oft~ Nassau and Bermuda, but not enter either
of those places, and cruise until you have only sufficient coal to take
you to your port of destination.
Yeryrespectfully, etc.,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Captain 0. 5. GLIsSON,	Secretary of Navy.
Commanding U. S. S. Mohican, Bahia, Brazil.



Instructions from the Secretary of the Navy to Captain Walke, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Sacramento, regarding cruise in search of C. S. S.
Alabama and other Confederate vessels.

[Confidential.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 18,1864.

	SIR: As soon as the U. S. steam sloop Sacramento is ready for sea,
proceed with her in search of the piratical vessels now afloat and prey-
ing upon our commerce.
	You will first visit the Western Islands, then the Cape Verde rlslands],
and from the latter direct your course to Brazil, touching at such points
on the coast as you may think advisable for the purpose of seeking
information relative to the movements of the privateers or pirates.
	From the coast of Brazil you will continue on to the Cape of Good
Hope. There you will be likely to obtain such facts in reference to the
movements of the Alabama and her consorts as will guide you in deter-
mining whether to continue to the eastward or to return north.
	You will bear in mind that the principal object of your pursuit is the
Alabama. If on arriving at the cape you shall ascertain that the Ala-
bama has returned to the Atlantic, and there are no other piratical yes-
sels in the Vicinity of the cape or to the eastward of it, you will go no
farther east, but return to the European coast and there cruise unti

Page 589

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	~89

the Department otherwise orders. On the contrary, should you ascer-
tain that the Alabama has not passed the cape on her way back to the
Atlantic, or has not been destroyed, or should y~u obtain no certain
information in regard to her, you will proceed to the eastward in search
of her, and follow her wherever she may go, whether in the East Indies,
China seas, or Pacific waters.
	Keep the Department constantly advised of your movements, past
and future. Be careful to preserve this order or any other important
ones of the Department, as well as your proposed movements, from pub-
licity. Such orders and such information get to the papers frequently
and the rebels reap the benefits thereof.
	Enclosed herewith is a sealed communication for Captain Glisson,
commanding the Illohiean, which you will take charge of and leave at
Bahia, Brazil, unless you should fall in with that vessel before reach-
ing that port.
	I transmit to you by mail a package of general orders of the Depart-
ment, together with a copy of the neutrality proclamation of Great
Britain.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
Captain HENRY WALKE,

Commanding U. S. S. Sacramento, Boston.



Letter from the U. S. minister at Paris, France, to Captain Winslow,
U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge, regarding proposed attack
upon that vessel by the C. S. S. Florida upon departure from Brest,
France.

L~GATION DES l~TATS-UNI5,
Paris, January 20, 1864.
	DEAR SIR: I have been advised from London that some seventy men
have recently beeii sent from England to France, and, as it is believed,
for Brest. I presume you have already learned that the crew of this
vessel has been filled up in whole or in part, but I think it best to
advise you of the above fact. The journals are stating that the captain
of the Florida has given you notice that early in next month he will
fight you off the French coast. I do not attach much importance to
these newspaper statements, but should anything of the kind be in
contemplation and you need additional men, do not permit anything
heretofore written to you to interfere with your enlisting them if they
can be had. The Georgia and Florida will probably join forces. The
Rappahannock, now at Calais, will not be permitted to take arms or
ammunition aboard before she sails. I have the express assurance of
this Government for that.
	What is the force of your vessel as compared with the aggregate force
of the Florida and Georgia? Have you received any such notice froni
the Florida as intimated; and if so, do you consider it a serious offer?
Itepeetfully, your obedient servant,
WM. L. DAYTON.
Captain WINSLOW,
U.	S. S. Kearsarge

Page 590

590	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

[Telegram.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January .20, 1864.

	Withdraw the steamers from the Hook and Throgs Neck.
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Rear-Admiral PAULDING,	&#38; cretary of the Navy.
Commandant Navy Yard, New York.



Report of Commander Carter, U. AS1. Nary, commandinq U. AS~~ S. ]Ifiehi-
gan, denying rumor of proposed attack upon Johnsons Island, Lake
Erie.
U. S. S. MICHIGAN

Erie, Pa., January 23, 1864.
	Siu: I have taken means to ascertain the truth of statements in
the newspapers in relation to a force of rebels congregated at Point
Pel6e, Canada, with intention of attacking Johnsons Island [Ohio].
I deem it proper to inform you that there is no foundation for such a
report.
I have the honor to be, your very obedient servant,
	J. C. CARTER,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
~Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Commander Preble, U. AS. Navy, eommandinq U. AS. ship St.
Louis, of the immediate departure of that vessel for a cruise to the
Azores Islands in search of C. S. S. Rappahannock.

U.	S. SLOOP OF WAR ST. LOUIS,
Lisbon, January 23, 1864.
	SIR:	I sail to-day, wind and weather permitting, for the Azores and
a cruise, which I propose to extend to the Canaries, returning to Cadiz
for stores in April.
	On the 10th instant I received information that there was a proba-
bility of the rebel steamer Rappahannocks leaving Calais [France], in
February and proceeding to the Azores for the purpose of obtaining
her military stores, etc., from the British bark Agrippina, which was
loaded at London. On informing our minister, Mr. Harvey, of it, and
of my intention of proceeding to those islands, he requested me to
delay my departure until he had communicated with the Portuguese
Government on the snbject. This he has done, and in a note just
received requests me to carry out my original intentions, which I shall
proceed to do with all dispatch.
	Officers and crew are all well.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEO. Hy. PREELE,
		Commander U
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES	. AS~ Navy.
Secretary of the Narvy, Washington, D. C

Page 591

OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSUNION.	591

Report of Commander ]JfcDougai, U. S. Nary, commanding U. S. S.
Wyoming,forwarding information of the capture by C. S. S. Alabama,
in the East Indies, of the American ships Sonora ~Und Highlander and
British ship Martaban.

U.	S. S. WYOMTNc,
Whampoa }jihina]. January 24, 1864.
	SIR: On the 24th ultimo I had the honor to report my arrival at
Manila and that I should proceed to the port of Cavit~ [Philippine
Islands], the Spanish naval depot, for repairs on the machinery. Prior
to my leaving for that place I made application to the Spanish admiral,
Don F. Pavia, to permit the repairs to be made there. He without
hesitation granted permission and gave orders that every facility should
be granted us in making our repairs, which was done. Through the
American consul I expressed my thanks to the admiral for the prompt
and friendly manner he had extended toward us the facilities of their
naval depot, not only in the repairs, but in replenishing our bunkers
with coal, which could only be obtained from the Government depot.
	On examination it was found necessary to take up the pipes taking
water to the boilers for repairs, some of which had to be partially
replaced with new. The repairs were completed on the 10th. On the
12th I left for llongkong and arrived on the 16th, thence to this place
for the repairs of the boilers, the auxiliary boiler in particular, as it
entirely failed us on our passage over from Manila. Enclosed is a
report of Mr. Inch, first assistaut, in charge of the repairs done at
Cavit6 and tilose being done here.
	Just on the eve of leaving Manila an English steamer arrived from
Singapore, reporting the arrival of the Alabama at that place on the
21st ultimo, sailing on the 24th, after taking in supplies, etc. She pro.
ceeded westward through the Malacca Strait, where, on the 26th, she
destroyed the American ships Sonora and Highlander, also the British
ship ]tliartaban, formerly the American ship Texan Star. The latest
information I have received was that she was heading under steam and
sail for Acheen Head, the western end of the island of Sumatra.
Enclosed are extracts of the Singapore Strait Times, of the 2d and 10th
instant, giving accounts of her captures after leaving Singapore.
	Since my arrival here I learned that some time since the rebel agents,
Cumming, Beaver &#38; Co., of Singapore, had made application to
Cooper &#38; Co., of this place, to dock the Alabama in case she arrived.
I was also informed that they were expecting her. I also learned
through a friend at Hongkong that the above firm (Cumming,
Beaver &#38; Co.) had given Captain Seinmes letters of introduction to an
English house in Hongkong, with a request they would show him every
attention should he arrive.
	From other sources I learned that twenty-five of his men deserted at
Singapore, and that when he left his crew amounted to about ninety-
five.
	Considerable excitement exists in the English community in Hong-
kong in regard to Semmess burning the lllartaban, and I doubt much,
should he visit these waters, whether he would receive the sympathy
and conntenance he has received at the Cape of Good Hope and Singa-
pore; certainly not from the leading houses.
	The repairs on our boilers will be completed this week, when I shall
sail for Macao

Page 592

592	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

	The Jamestown, I understand, sailed from Yokohama on the 26th
December.
	Officers and crew all well.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
D.	MUDOUGAL,

Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Na~y, Washington.



Letter from the U. S. consul at Havre, France, to Captain Winslow, U. S.
Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge, giving further rumors of the
proposed attack upon that vessel by the C. S. steamers Rappahannock
and Florida.

U.	S. CONSULATE,
Havre [France], January 25, 1864.
	DEAR SIR: I beg to state that I am this morning in receipt of
another letter from Mr. Morse (U. S. consul at London), who states
that the steward of the I?appakaiunock was at Sheerness [England] yes-
terday (22d) to say good-bye to his family, and said that he must go
back, as the Rappahannock would go out on Sunday (24th) to join the
Florzda to attack the Kearsarge.
	I send it to you for what it is worth. A private messenger to me
from Mr. Mprse states that he knows the Rappahannock received guns
last week.
	I hope my letters will not give you annoyance, as they arise from a
desire to possess you of all the minors that can be of interest.
I remain, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JAMES 0. PUTNAM.
Captain JNO. A. WINSLOW,
Of the Kearsarge.

	P. S.Since the foregoing was written I learn that two Whitworths
arrived here last Wednesday from Liverpool for the Florida. Their gun
carriages are at this moment on the dock in this city.




Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, regarding the flagship Powhatan.

FLAGSHIP POWHATAN,
Cape flaitien [Haiti], January 27, 1864.
	SlR: I report the Powhatan at this port since the 13th instant to
sail on the 1st of February for the Windward Islands and return to
Cape ilaitien by the latter end of that month.
	It will be necessary in March to go to Key West for provisions and
other supplies for the squadron.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	L. LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy

Page 592A


Page 592B

UNITED STATES STEAMER WACHUSETT

Page 593

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	593

Order of the Secretary qf the Navy to Commander Collins, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Wackusett, transmitting confidential instructions
regarding cruise of that vessel.

NAVY Ji~EPARTMENT, January 27, 1864.

	SIR: You will proceed in company with the U. S. ironclad steamer
Sangamon to Port Royal, S. C., towing her and affording other assist-
ance when necessary. After discharging this duty, you will proceed
to execute the confidential instructions herewith enclosed.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.
	Commander N. COLLINs,
Commanding U. S. S. Wachusett, Philadelphia.

[Enclosureconfidential.]

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 27, 1864.

	Sn~: The U. S. steam sloop Wachusett, under your command, is de-
signed as the relief of the U. S. steam sloop Mohican, cruising on the
coast of Brazil, and you will proceed thither from Port Royal [S. C.]
after accompanying the Sangamon to that port.
	Your object will be the protection of the rights and property of
American citizens on the coast, and especially the guarding of Ameri-
can commerqe against the depredations of piratical cruisers now or that
may be set afloat. You will be vigilant in the performance of this
duty, and should the Alabama or any of her consorts visit the coast of
Brazil, use your best exertions to overtake and capture them.
	The coast of Brazil and as far south as the La Plata, the islands of
Fernando de Koronha and Trinidad and others adjacent to the coast,
will embrace your cruising grounds. It is not designed that you should
leave these limits unless in pursuit of some piratical vessel known to
be not far distant. You will remain on the coast until the Department
otherwise orders.
	Keep the Department advised of your proceedings, and be careful
that your proposed movements are not made public at the ports you
visit, as the publication of such information is frequently of great
advantage to the piratical cruisers. Communications for you will be
directed to Bahia [Brazil].
	I transmit to you by mail a package containing the general orders
and circulars of the Department. Enclosed is a sealed order for Cap-
tain 0.5. Glisson, commanding U. S. steam sloop Mohi can, which please
take charge of and leave at Bahia should you not fall in with him before
reaching that port.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of Navy.

	Commander N. COLLINS,
Commanding U. S. Steam Sloop Wachusett, Philadelphia.
N W UVOL II3

Page 594

594	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Report of Captain Steliwagen, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Con-
stellation, of the marked attentions received by himself and officers from
the ruling powers of Italy.
U.	S. Snir CONSTELLATION,
Naples, January 28, 1864.
	SIR:	It is my pleasant duty to inform you of the continued demon-
strations of ruling powers and people of the Kingdom of Italy toward
our country and its officers.
	His Royal Highness Prince Humbert (Umberto), heir apparent to
the throne, has accorded to myself and officers a presentation at his
court, and given us all very marked attentions. In the course of con-
versation he, with many expressions of admiration of its advancement
and greatness, signified his desire and intention of visiting the United
States,. probably in the spring. And as he repeated it with much
appearance of sincerity, I would most respectfully request you to pre-
sent the matter to the honorable Secretary of State and his Excellency
President Lincoln, as it has been suggested by persons versed in the
matters of the court that an invitation from the President, through our
minister at Turin, or the usual channel, would certainly be gratifying
to the prince and King.
Ii remain, very respectfully, etc., your obedient servant,
H.	S. STELLWAGEN,
Captain.
Hon. G. WELLES,
Secretary Navy, Washington.



Report of Commander Perry, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. storeship
Eredonia, of the departure from Callao Peru o
	and ammunition.	,	, f a vessel carrying arms
U.	S. STORESIJIP FREDONJA,
Callao, January 29, 1864.
	SIR:	A person called M. H. Penny, hitherto always claiming to be a
British subject, and known here generally to be such, has been enabled,
through some of his friends, to suit his present views, to satisfy the
consul at this port that he is a citizen of the United States, purchased
an old iron steamboat, belonging formerly to the English Steam Com-
pany, who had her built in England, and on the strength of a certifi-
cate given him by the consul of his being the owner and an American
citizen, hoisted the American flag on her. Suspicions being raised as
to her movements, the government of this place ordered the captain of
the port to go on board and search said vessel ere she left. This was
done by said official, accompanied by the U. S. secretary of legation
and consuls clerk, when it was found she had on board two rifled can-
non, ammunition, and some boxes of sabers, all of which were landed.
She was detained here for a few days for want of an American who
could take charge of her as captain, but on the night of the 11th, this
difficulty having been overcome, she left this port cleared for Payta
and Guayaquil.
	As this vessel is evidently gone on some unlawful business I deem it
my duty to inform you that she has no papers beyond the certificate of
ownership alluded to. I understand she intends to stop at Payta
[Peru], take there armament and men, and after leaving port will hau

Page 595

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	595



down the American flag to hoist the one which may suit the owner
best. I remonstrated to the consul and to the U. ~. minister for allow-
ing her to carry the flag, as also told them she should not be permitted
to depart. My wishes were not attended to. Not having the means to
enforce my desire, I was compelled to remain a passive looker-on.
	This steamer, formerly called the New Granada, and latterly Ber-
nardino, is now styled the Go Ahead. She is iron built, side-wheels,
has two masts, and of about 500 to 600 tons is by no means a very
fast boat. She is supposed to have on board several boxes of muskets
stowed away under her coal.
	Being confined to my bed when the last mail left, I was unable to
advise you of this event earlier.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	ROGER PERRY,
	CHARLES II. BELL,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Acting Rear-Admiral, U. S. N., Comdg. Pacific Squadron.



Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Guest. U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Galatea, to report to Acting Rear-Admiral Lard-
nerfor duty in the West India Squadron.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, January 30, 1864.

	SIR: As soon as the U. S. S. Galatea is ready for sea proceed with
her to the West Indies and report to Acting Rear-Admiral James L.
Lardner for duty in the West India Squadron. The coal depot for this
squadron is at Cape ilaitien, where you may find Acting Rear-Admiral
Lardner, or learn something of his movements.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy.

	Commander JOHN GUEST, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Galatea, New York.



Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. iJilohi can,
of intended departure from Rio de Janeiro Brazil in sea
	bark Tuscaloosa.	,	,	rch of C. S.
U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Rio [Brazil J, February 2, 1864.
	SIR: I have to report to the honorable Secretary of the Navy that I
have completed the repairs of this ship as recommended in the survey
that I forwarded to the Department in my dispatch dated January
16, 1864.
	It is reported that the Tuscaloosa is cruising to the southward of this
port. I shall therefore sail in the morning in that direction on a cruise,
and before I return to this place communicate with Buenos Ayres,
Montevideo, and St. Catharines, and should I get no information of
this piratical vessel I shall then cruise to the northward, touching a

Page 596

596	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

all the Brazilian ports to the northward of Rio, and as soon as I learn
that she is not on the coast I shall leave for Philadelphia and probably
reach that place about the 15th of April.
	My officers and crew continue to enjoy good health.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	S. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge,
transmitting further information from London and Paris regardtng
proposed attack upon that vessel by Confederate cruisers.

U. S. S. KEARSARGE,
Cadiz, Spain, February 4, 1864.
	SIR: I have the honor to enclose copies of letters received from Mr.
Dayton at Paris and our consul at London, with my response. I have
no means of verifying the information, but I deem it prudent to borrow
two guns from the St. Louis, if I should fall in with her, as the Kear.
sarge can very well carry them.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNO. A. WINSLOW,
	Hon.	WELLES	Captain.
Secretary of the No~vy, Washington, D. C.

[Enclosures.]

U. S. CONSULATE,
London, January 21, 1864.
	M~ DEAR SIR: I have learned that the rebel privateers now in French
ports, but more especially the Florida, are being carefully prepared to
capture the Kearsarge, if possible. Besides the 80-pounder Whitworth
rifled guns which the Florida had on board, she this week received
from an English yacht two steel Blakely rifled cannon with steel-
pointed elongated shot to fit them. These guns were taken to Dieppe
from the English coast, I think from Newhaven, by steamer and put on
board the yacht there, and taken thence to Brest by the yacht and
put on board the Florida.
	I learn also that the Florida is very heavily armed and manned.
About 150 [men] have been sent to her from this country within the
last two or three weeks. I hear also from pretty good authority that
there is a very strong desire and determination on the part of the
rebel leaders in Europe to take her, and that large bounties will be
offered to the crew of the Florida in addition to half the value of the
prize, if they will fight desperately and take herthe Kearsarge.
	The papers of this morning say that the Kearsarge has been chal-
lenged to a fight 6 miles outside by the Florida, the action to take
place early in February. If there be any truth in the rumor, the time
may be set to enable the Alabama (which is expected at Brest in about
two weeks), the 1?appahannock, and Georgia to take a part in the
encounter and also to enable the Floridas men to be well drilled. All
this may be known to you, and Captain Winslow, of the Kearsarge,
may, before this time, have been apprised of what I have stated above

Page 597

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	597

If so, I shall be much gratified. If not, I leave all to your discretion
as to what shall be done. But allow me to suggest that Captain
Winslow be at once informed of the very careful j~eparations that are
being made to meet him. If he is cruising off the port of Brest, I sup-
pose the only way to reach him promptly will be to dispatch a faithful
messenger with letters, giving him full and detailed information in
regard to the subject. As they think they have the best long-range
guns that can be anywhere procured, Whitworth and Blakelys, they
feel confident they can easily disable her at long range and make her
surrender or carry her by boarding.
	Is the Kearsarge shorthanded; and does she want men? If so,
American seamen should be sent to her if they can possibly be pro-
cured. It will not be against the laws of this country to send him
Americans, and perhaps some can be got in Liverpool.
		Very truly, yours,	F. H. Mo~s~.
	J.	0. PUTNAM
		 U. ~. Consul, Havre, France.



LEGATION OF THE UNITED STATES,
Paris, January 26, 1864.
	SIR:	To prevent any possible mistake, 1 send you another copy of a
letter enclosed to you last week. It will explaiu itself. I am advised,
too, that the Rappahannock, as well as the Georgia, is now ready for
sea. That she has at the present moment a crew of about sixty men
only, its complement to be to taken on board just before sailing. Our
consul at London believes, too, that she is armed, notwithstanding the
promises of this Government.
	Everything occurring warns you to be on your guard.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,	WM. L. DAYTON.

Captain WINSLOW,
U.	~3. S. Kearsarge.

	P. S.If you need men, let nothing which has occurred heretofore
prevent your shipping them. Telegraph consuls at Havre, London,
and Liverpool when and where you will receive them.
D.


U. S. S. KEARSARGE,
Cadiz, ~S~pain, February 4, 1864.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of copy of your com-
munication to Mr. Dayton, affording information of the supposed design
of the Confederate cruisers, with other contents. Although preparation
is essential, I am, however, not disposed to endorse all the papers may
say of what is to be done by rebel cruisers. First, I know nothing of
a challenge, and inasmuch as we had been for some time blockading
Brest, and our business is to intercept the Florida and other rebel
cruisers, I cant see the necessity of printed bombast, when at any
moment they desire, a meeting with this ship can be had. Again, in
response to a communication of Consul Putnam, in which he informed
me of having seen a letter from a lieutenant of the Georgia, expressin

Page 598

598	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

the intention of rebels to combine for the capture of the Kearsarge, T
stated to him that no obstacle would be thrown in the way of the
Georgias and Floridas junction if such intention was honest.
	Some repairs to the machinery of this ship will detain us longer here
than I anticipated, and I can not expect to arrive in Brest before the
18th instant.
	With my thanks to you for your information,
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNO. A. WINSLOW,
Captain.
	F.	II. MORSE, Esq.,
U.	AS~. Consul, London.

	P.	S.Should we find on our return to Brest that the Floridas arma-
ment and crew have been increased, it would be no longer prudent to
permit her to join the Georgia.

[Endor8ement.j

	To accept or send a challenge would be to recognize the pirates on
terms of equality, elevating them and degrading our own.
[GIDEON WELLES.]



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron.

FLAGSHIP POWHATAN,
St. Thomas, February 6, 1864.
SIR:	I have the honor to report this ship at St. Thomas~
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, ~. L. all well.
LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.



Report of Commander Collins, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Wachu-
sett, of the detention of that vessel by adverse wind.

	U.	S. S. WACHUSETT,
Delaware Breakwater, February 7, 1864.
	SIR: On the 4th instant we got underway with the ironclad steamer
Sangamon in tow. After proceeding scarcely a mile the wind from
the southward increased so much that Lieutenant-Commander Miller
reqnested to return to this anchorage. I complied with his request.
	We are again underway with the Sangamon in tow. The wind is
light from the northward; weather cloudy.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	N. COLLINS,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington City

Page 599

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	599

Report of Commander flulton, commanding U. S. steam transport Western
Metropolis, of the capture by that vessel of the steamer Rosita, from
Havana.

ON BOARD U. S. S. WESTERN METROPOLIS,
New York, February 8, 1864.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that on the 28th day of January,
1864, on my passage from New Orleans to New York, when in latitude
240 47, longitude 830 57, fell in with and boarded a suspicious-looking
steamer sailing under British protection, called the Rosita, from
Havana.
	Her papers being very irregular, and having every indication of
being a blockade runner, I transferred her officers and crew on board
my ship and placed them under guard, and put on board a prize master
and crew and took her in tow to Key West, Fla. On arrival delivered
up the steamer, with officers and crew, to the proper authorities of that
Department for adjudication.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
WM. Th HILTON,
Commander U. S. S. Western Metropolis.
Hon. SECRETARY OF THE NAVY,
Washington, D. C.

	P. 5.Please find herewith a list of the officers and crew,of the
steamship Western Metropolis at the time the aforesaid capture was
made.


Report of Commander Collins, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Wachu-
sett, of the arrival of that vessel at Port Royal, S. C.

U.	S. S. WACHUSETT,
Port Royal, S. C., February 12, 1864.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the safe arrival here yesterday of
this ship with the U. S. ironclad steamer Sangamon in tow, having
made the passage from Cape Henlopen in three days and twenty hours.
We were favored with good weather during the entire voyage.
	As soon as the repairs to the engines (a list of which is enclosed) are
completed I will proceed to carry out your confidential orders* of the
27th January last.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
N.	COLLINS,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.


Report of Captain Walke, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Sacramento,
of the arrival of that vessel at Fayal, Azores Islands.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP SACRAMENTO,
Ilorta Roads, Fayal, February 12, 1864.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report the arrival of the U. S. S. Sacra-
mento at this port on the evening of February 11th instant, nine days
*Seep 593

Page 600

600	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

from Boston. This may be considered a fair passage in favorable
weather for this vessel. As a seaboat she is easy and manageable.
Her engines also (with the exception of an occasional delay for a few
minntes to tighten bolts on crank pins and crossheads) run satisfac-
torily, propelling us at the rate of 10 to 12A knots an hour, under a
moderate pressure of steam.
	I can not obtain any information of rebel cruisers in this vicinity.
	I will sail from this place on my cruise in a few days, or as soon as
we can coal and overhaul our engines.
	Quite a number of our crew are sick, bnt improving. Herbert K.
Pike (ordinary seaman) died and was buried at sea on the 9th instant.
His certificate of death and accounts are forwarded to their respective
bureaus.
	I found the U. S. ship St. Louis here at anchor; she will sail for
Madeira in two or three days with dispatches.
Jam, sir,veryrespectfully, yourobedientservant,
HENRY WALKE,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington D. C.


[Telegram.]

HALIFAX, NOVA ScoTIA, February 12, 1864.
(Received at Washington 4:40 p. in.)
	Suspicious steamer cruising oft~ harbor past three days; reported to
be Confederate vessel, watching for Chesapeake.
M.	M. JACKSON,
U.	S. Consul.
	Hon. W. H. SEWARD,
Secretary State.


Report of Commander Preble, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship St. Louis,
of arrival of that vessel at the Azores Islands, bearing dispatches from
the Portuguese Government directing the civil governors to prevent the
outfitting of Confederate privateers within their jurisdictions.

U.	S. SLOOP OF WAR ST. Louis,
Fayal [Azores], February 14, 1864.
	Sn~: Agreeably to your communication No. 31 sailed from Lisbon
for these islands on the 24th of January, intrusted with dispatches to
the civil governors of St. Michael, Terceira, Payal, and Funchal, from
the Portuguese department of state, directing those officials by all the
means in their power to prevent the outfitting of rebel privateers, or,
as the document styled them, those pirates, and the enemies of the
United States within their jurisdictions.
	On the 28th, when four days out, though favored by fair w inds, we
were passed about midway on the passage by the Portuguese Govern.
ment steamer Mindello, which was dispatched from Lisbon two days after
us, on the same errand. The following evening a brig-rigged steamer
passed across our stern, standing to the S. W., but so far to windward
we were unable to ascertain her character.
	On the 1st of February I anchored at Ponta Delgada, St. Michael,
saluted the city and. our consular agent, Mr. Hickling, and delivere

Page 601

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	601

the dispatch to the governor. Our consul (who, with his father, has
occupied that post since the revolution) informed me we were the third
United States man-of-war that had ever anchored t*iere, the fliuscarora
and Kearsarge being the others, and that we were the first to salute
the city.
	On the 2d I left for Terceira, where, finding it unsafe to anchor, I sent
in a boat with the dispatch, standing off and on until its return. The
same evening we ran into these roads, but dceming it imprudent to
anchor on account of the sea and weather stood out again, and did not
get to anchor until the 6th, when I landed a large mail for the island
and delivered the dispatch to the governor in person. We found here
the Mindello, which had already been to Terceira, and I exchanged visits
with her commander, who said he wished to impress upon me that he
was ordered over here expressly on our account and for our benefit, and
that another vessel was equipping, which would be sent over on his
return to Lisbon. Exasperated, no doubt, by the indifference of the
Alabama to neutral obligations when she outfitted and received her
armament at Terceira, the Portuguese Government have behaved very
handsomely in this matter.
	The governor of Terceira, in consequence of these instructions, has
forbidden steamers to be coaled at that island unless bonds are given
that the vessel is not intended to run our blockade. This order has
caused an English merchant named Dart to send a cargo of coal, already
in harbor at Angra, to St. Michael.
	On the evening of the 11th we were gratified by the arrival of the
Sacramento, t~aptain Walke, bringing Boston newspapers to February
2, a whole month in advance of the Portuguese mail.
	To.morrow I intend sailing for Madeira to deliver the remaining dis.
patch, and shall thence proceed to Teneriffe.
	Since our arrival here a Portuguese brig came in from Brazil, which
unfortunately sailed again before the rumor reached me. She reported
that February 2, when in latitude 350 and longitude 350~ a brigantine.
rigged steamer, having two yellow funnels and showing an English
ensign, steamed all around her, and then, apparently satisfied with herj
examination, went off in pursuit of a bark to the westward. {
	Not having heard from the Department concerning William P2
McIntosh, seaman, and taking into consideration his long confinement
I

on leaving Lisbon I released him a prisoner at large, and he is now at
his duty.
	Officers and crew are all well. The surgeons daily report exhibits
no sick.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GRO. ily. PREBLE,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Instructions from Acting Rear-Admiral Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding
Pacific Squadron, to Commander Hopkins, U. S. Navy, commanding
U. S. S. Saginaw, regarding cruise in Mexican waters.

U.	S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Acapulco, February 15, 1864.
SIR:	When you are in every respect ready you will proceed with the
U. S. S. Saginaw, under your command, direct to Guaymas, in the Gul

Page 602

602	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

of California. On your arrival you will communicate with Dr. Charles
G. Bryant, U. S. consul, and Mr. Thomas Robinson to
deliver the enclosed letter.	, whom you will
	In consequence of the state of health of your crew requiring a change
of.
climate, you will remain at Guaymas at least two weeks. You will
then cross the gulf and visit La Paz, in Old California; from thence you
will go to Mazatlan, where you can remain a week or ten days. You
must endeavor to renew your stock of friel at each of these places, by
obtaining the best hard wood to be found, and keep sufficient funds in
hand to pay for this and other necessary expenses until you return to
this port, which you will endeavor to do by the 20th of next month.
	It is believed that on that part of the coast of Mexico which you
will visit during your present cruise there are many persons calling
themselves citizens of the United States who are watching an oppor-
tunity to seize upon any vessel suitable to make depredations on our
commerce. You must, therefore, be extremely careful, particularly
when at anchor, that no boats approach without being ready to repel
any attempt which may be made to take you by surprise. A sufficient
watch on deck at night, with arms at hand, and the men drilled to
rush on deck without waiting to dress, is absolutely indispensable in a
low-deck vessel like the Saginaw.
	I do not wish you to stop either at San Blas or Mauzanillo, but
should it be in your way you can touch at Cape San Lucas or San
Jos6 del Cabo for refreshments.
	Wishing you a pleasant cruise,
I am, respectfully, yours,
CHAS. II. BELL,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding Pacific Squadron.

	Commander WM. E. HOPKINS,
Commanding U. &#38; S. Saginaw, Acapulco.



Order of Captain Price, U. S. Navy, senior officer present at Macao, China,
to tijommander McDougal, commanding U. S. S. Wyoming, to proceed to
Foo-Chow for protection of American interests.

U.	S. Snip JAMESTOWN,
Off Macao, February 15, 1864.
	SIR: As soon as the Wyoming, under your command, is ready for sea,
you will proceed in her to Foo-Chow and render all proper aid and pro-
tection in your power to Americans and their interests at that place.
	After a reasonable stay there you will return to Macao, where, if you
find no further orders from the Kavy Department or myself, you will
return to Sunda Strait and act under the instructions formerly received
by you from the honorable Secretary of the Navy.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant, CICERO PRICE,

Captain and Senior Officer Present.

Commander DAVID MCDOUGAL,
U. S. S. Wyoming, off ]Ilacao

Page 603

OPERATIONS OF THI~ CRUISERSUNION.	603


Letter from Commander MieDougal, U~ S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Wyoming, to Captain Price, senior officer present at ]Jillacao, China,
acknowledging orders to proceed to Foo-Chou, Chi~a.

U.	S. S. WYOMING,
]J/Iacao, February 15, 1864.
	SIR: Your order, dated the 16th instant, to proceed to Foo-Chow has
been received. I enclose for your information the duplicate of my
orders of January 26 and June 6, 1863, from the honorable Secretary
of the Navy in relatiou to the movements of this ship.
	Yesterday I received intelligence that the Alabama had been spoken
on the 8th ultimo off Pondicherry, and that possibly she might return
to the Strait of Singapore, which conjecture I think quite probable.
	In my last dispatch to the honorable Secretary of the Navy I
reported that as soon as my supplies were on board I should proceed
south. I am now waiting for some balls ordered for the engineers
department, which will be over in to-morrows boat, when I shall be
ready for sea.
	Should your orders to proceed to Foo-Chow be not rescinded, be
pleased to forward a copy of this communication to the honorable Sec-
retary of the Navy.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
D.	MCDOITG-AL,
Commander.
Captain CICERO PRICE,
Comm~nding U. S. Ship Jamestown,
and Senior Officer Present, JFlacao.


Further instructions from Captain Price, U. S. Navy, senior officer pres-
ent at Macao, China, to Commander ]IifcDougal, commanding U. S. S.
Wyoming, regarding cruisin.q ground of that vessel.

U.	S. SHIP JAMESTOWN,
Off Macao, February 15, 1864.
	SIR: I am in receipt of your letter of this date, with the enclosures.
In regard to the Alabama, I saw the account also that she was spoken
off Pondicherry on the 8th ultimo.
	It appears to me, therefore, that she is making her way to the south-
ward and westward without intending to return to the straits either of
Singapore or Sunda, and in this view 1 thought you concurred with me
in a conversation at llongkong. I even understood you to say that the
news by the last mail had put a different asl)ect upon the affairs of the
necessity of your return to Sunda Strait. Until then I was of the
opinion that you should return to Singapore and Sunda straits as soon
as you were ready. Now I do not think that necessity exists, and,
moreover, the consul at Foo-Chow and the Americans residing there are
very urgent that an American man-of war should visit that place in
consequence of recent difficulties with the natives. A steamer only is
appropriate to go to that place.
	You will be governed while there by any reliable information you may
receive by the next mail or from any other source. I therefore deem it
expedient that you should go to Foo-Chow.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
ClCERo PRICE,
Captain and Senior Officer Present.
Commander DAvID MCDOIJC-AL,
U. S. S. Wyoming, off Macao

Page 604

4304	OPERATIONS 01? THE CRUISERS UNION.

Report of Gaptaim Price, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship Jamestown,
of the arrival of that vessel at Macao, China, forwarding inlormation
regarding the movements of the C. S. S. A labania.

U.	S. SHIP JM~IESTOWN,
Off ]Jfacao, February 15, 1864.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform the Department that this ship
arrived here on the 8th instant. I left Yokohama on the 26th of
December, immediately after hearing that the Alabama was in the
China Sea, and after a very boisterous and tedions passage pnt into
Amoy, where I was informed the A labama would probably go into dock,
if she did not at Whampoa. I had previously, at sea, spoken an Amer-
ican vessel (under the Hamburg flag) jnst out from Shanghai, which
informed me that the rebel crniser had not been heard ofoff that port.
I heard from other vessels similar intelligence from INing-Po and
Foo-Chow.
	The American vice-consul at Amoy was reliably informed that the
agent of the dry dock at that place had received a letter from Captain
Semmes, or an English friend, that the Alabama would be there that
week, and to have the dock in readiness for his vessel. I waited, in
consequence, a week longer, and afterwards convoyed the American
sbip Wandering Jew to Hongkong.
	Mr. Seward, the consul-general at Shanghai, wrote to me suggesting
the expediency of anchoring this ship at the mouth of the Wusung
[Woo-Sung] River to protect American property on that river and the
Yang-tse-Kiang from an apprehended visit of the Alabama. I may also
add that serious alarms were entertained of a visit from her to Yeddo
[Tokio] Bay, where four or five American vessels were, and which is
frequently a stopping place for them to and from San Francisco and
Shanghai. A hope was expressed that a steamer of war would come to
Japan from the Pacific Squadron for the protection of that trade.
	Intelligence is received here since my. arrival that the Alabama was
spoken off Pondicherry some five weeks since, making her way to the
southward and eastward. I do not think she will reappear in these
seas, but seek new fields for her depredations.
	A mate of the Contest (American ship burned near Sumatra), whom
I met at Hongkong, told me that he was a prisoner on board the Ala-
bama for eight days; that thirty or forty of her crew deserted at Sing-
apore, and all would have done so with the opportunity; that all arms
were carefully kept from the crew, and that in fact they were more care-
fully guarded than their prisoners.
	I found the Wyoming here upon my arrival, and have sent her to
Foo-Chow for a few days, in consequence of a difficulty between the
American missionaries and the natives at that place, and at the urgent
request of the American vice consul for an American maim of-war.
Upon her return here she will proceed down the China Sea, unless other
orders from the Department are received.
	This ship will leave in a few (lays for Manila and the passes into the
Pacific, although she, too, wants being docked very much on account
of her rudder.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
CICERO PRICE,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES
Secretary of the Navy, Washington

Page 605

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	605

Letter from the Secretary of State to the Secretary of the Navy, transmit-
ting extract from report of the U. S. minister to France, regarding the
inadequacy of United States naval force in Frenck~ports.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,
Washington, February 17, 1864.
	SIR:	I enclose for your information an extract from a dispatch of Mir.
Dayton, of the 26th ultimo, this day received at this Department.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
WILLIAM II. SEWARD,
[Secretary of State.]
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Wavy.

[EnclosureExtract.]


PARIS, January 26, 1864.
	SIR:	* * * The whole body of secessiondom now here is full of
the terrific efforts which the Confederates, it is believed, are about to
make in the spring. It will be their supreme efl&#38; rt. If it f~vil badly,
the rebels and their European friends will settle down with the convic-
tion that the Confederate bubble has finally burst.
	I much regret that, of the great number of our ships of war, enough
could not have been spared to look after the small rebel cruisers now in
French ports. It is a matter of great surprise in Europe that, with our
apparent nav~i force, we permit such miserable craft to chase onr com-
merce from the ocean; it affects seriously our prestige.
I am, sfr, your obedient servant,	WM. L. DAYTON.

lion. WILLIAM II. SEWARD,
Secretary of State.



Letter from the U. S. minister to France to Captain Winslow, U. S. Wavy,
commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge, regarding C. S. S. Rappahannock.

PARIs, February 18, 1864.
	SIR:	Two English vessels arrived on Sunday last with coal from Lon-
don for the Rappahannock. They are now at Calais transshipping this
coal (about 200 tons). -
	A letter from London dated 17th instant informs me that Mr. Morse,
our consul at that port, says there will be on the next day, the 18th
(to-day), but six able seamen on board the Rappahannock; that all the
others have left or deserted her; that Captain [W. P. A.] Campbell, of
the Rappahannock, despairing of completing his crew in that port, will
go around to Cherbourg or Brest and try to fill up in those ports, or one
of them; that his vessel will be taken around by the aid of the stokers,
or in any other way they can manage it. I doubt, however, if the French
Government will admit her to conic directly into another French port.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,	WM. L. DAYTON.

Captain WINSLOW,
U.	S. S. Kearsarge, Brest

Page 606

606	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Letter from the Secretary of State to the Secretary of the Navy, trans-
mitting enclosure from the U. S. minister to Japan in reference to the
movements of the C. S. S. Alabama.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE,

Washington, February 18, 1864.
	SIR: I have the honor to communicate a copy of another telegram
from Mr. Pruyn, dated at Kanagawa on the 19th ultimo, in which
reference is made to the Alabama.
I have the honor to be, your obedient servant,
	WILLIAM H. SEWARD,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	[Secretary of State.]
Secretary of the Navy.

LEnclosure.]

LE&#38; ATJON OF THE UNITED STATES,
Kanagawa, Japan, Ja~zuary 19, 1864.
(Received at Washington 12:35 p. m. February 18.)
	The American ship Mary Capen, just arrived from Shanghai, reports
the Alabama in dock at Amoy, watched by the Wyoming, Captain
McDougal, as I have already advised you, having heard that there was
a prospect of the Alabama going there for repairs. On consultation
with Captain Price it was thought best that the Jamestown should go
there. She accordingly left here on the 26th December, and must be
there by this time. I advised both Captain McDougal and Captain
Price to destroy that vessel if found in any Chinese port, if necessary
to prevent her escape.
It. H. PRUYN,
Minister Resident, etc.
	Hon. WM. H. SEWARD,
Secretary State.



Report of Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge,
of the escape of the C. S. S. Florida from the port of Brest, France.

U. S. S. KEARSARGE,
Brest, France, February 19, 1864.
	SIR: I regret to inform the Department of the escape of the Florida
from this port on the 11th instant. The Florida took advantage of a
thick,. rainy night and left at 2 oclock, proceeding through the southern
passage.
	Mr. Kerros (the U. S. consular agent) is of the opinion that the Florida
was ordered off, as such orders came from Paris, either from the French
Government or other parties.
	It was expected that she would have been detained two weeks for
repairs of machinery, but those repairs were refused by the admiral
and the pieces of machinery returned the day before her departure.
	The opinion prevailed in Brest that the Kearsarge was off the main
channel blockading, and hence her exit by the southern passage. The
Florida, if she proceeded to the southward, must have passed the
Kearsarge off Portugal, but if so she was never sighted. I learn she
took out a poor crew of about 100 men, with no increased armament

Page 607

OPERATIONS OP THE ORUISEI~SUNION.	607

	The letters of Mr. Kerros to Cadiz, informing me of necessary repairs
which would detain her, together with frequent communications from
onr different consuls that a combination on the part~of rebel vessels for
the capture of the Kearsarge had been determined upon, all led me to
hope that some stand might be made, but this hope was dispelled on
our arrival here yesterday.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNo. A. WINSLOW,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge,
regarding the movements of the C. S. steamers Florida, Rappahannock,
and Georgia.
U. S. S. KEARSARGE,
Brest, France, February 20, 1864.
	SIR: Since my letter of yesterdays date, informing the Depart-
ment of the departure of the Florida from this place, I have received
from Admfral Gueydon a copy of instructions issued by the minister of
marine at Paris to the authorities of French maritime places.
	These instructions, which establish regulations for United States and
Confederate vessels of war, are nearly similar to those in force under
the Queens proclamation.
	I enclose h4ewith a copy of the letter of instractions.
	The Department will readily perceive the cause of the sudden depar-
ture of the Florida (confirming Mr. Kerross information that it was in
consequence of orders).
	I have just received a telegram that the Georgia sailed on the 16th
instant and the Rappahannock would probably shortly follow.
	I shall proceed up the channel to-day, in hopes of falling in with
these vessels, and preventing any depredations on American commerce,
though my opinion is that the rebels will make all haste for a southern
latitude.
I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNO. A. WiNsLow,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
[Enc1o~ureTrans1ation.]

PARIS, February 5, 1864.
The minister of marine and of the colonies to messieurs the maritime pre-
fects, general officers, superintendents, or other commanders at sea; the
commander of the Algerian Navy; the colonial governors; the commis-
sioners general of the Navy; the heads of the marine department in the
secondary ports, and the commissioners and administrators of the mari-
time inscription.

	GENTLEMEN:	The Government of the Emperor, by its declaration of
the 10th of June, 1861, inserted in the Moniteur, made known the princi-
ples on which rested the neutrality it intended to observe during the
sanguinary war of North America. Since then these principles have
been applied in our colonies as well as in the ports of the metropolis.
However, the continuation of the war having lead the two belligerents t

Page 608

608	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

make the neighboring waters of the neutral states of Europe the scene
of the maritime hostilities, and the nature of these operations having
induced the ships of one or the other party t~ seek iii neutral ports
means of repairing or revictualing, the Government of the Emperor
has thought it expedient to recall anew to you the rules to observe for
maintaining its neutrality, in conformity with public duty and with
the traditions of the French navy, and to determine, in consequence,
the line of action that should be pursued, without distinction of flag,
toward the belligerent ships which present themselves in our ports.
	You will have to see to the strict execution of the following pro-
visions:
	First. No ship of war or belligerent privateer will be admitted for a
longer stay than twenty-four hours in a port of the Empire or of the
French colonies, or the adjacent waters, except in case of putting back
for stress of weather, damages, or lack of supplies necessary for the
safety of navigation.
	Second. In no case shall a belligerent make use of a French port for
purposes of war, nor to supply himself with arms or munitions of war
there, nor to have done, under pretext of repairs, any work having for
its object an increase of his maritime power.
	Third. There can only be furnished to a ship of war or belligerent
privateer stores demees [sic] and articles or means of repairing
necessary for the subsistence of her crew and the security of her navi-
gation.
	Fourth. No ship of war or belligerent privateer, admitted to revictual
or repair in a French port, shall prolong her stay there beyond twenty-
four hoursafter her stores shall have been gotten on board and her
repairs finished, save in the case hereafter mentioned.
	Fifth. When the ships of war, privateers, or merchautmen of the
two belligerent parties shall find themselves at the same time in a
French port, there must be an interval, which shall not be less than
twenty-four hours, between the departure of every vessel of one of
the belligerents and the subsequent departure of every ship of war or
privateer of the other belligerent. This delay may be extended in
case of need, by order of the maritime authority, so far as it will be
necessary to carry into effect the present provisions.
	You will take care that the provisions which precede are made known
to every ship of one or the other belligerent that comes into the ports,
roads, or waters subject to your command to remain there.
Receive, gentlemen, etc.,
CT. DE CITASSELOUP-LAUBAT,
	Minister, Secretary of State for Marine and for the Colonies.
True copy.
COMTE DE GUEYDON,
Vice-Admiral, Maritime Prefect.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Bell, U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific
Squadron, regarding equipment of vessel for the Confederate Govern-
ment in a South American port.

U. S. FLAGSHIP LANCASTER,
Acapulco [Mexico], February 23, 1864.
	SIR: I have the honor to enclose you a copy of a letter * from Com-
mander Roger Perry, commanding U. S. storeship Fredonia, dated

*See p. 594

Page 609

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	609


Caflao, Peru, January 29, 1864. Ii would respectfully request the
attention of the honorable the Secretary of State to be called to the
statement in regard to the course said to have b ~en pursued by our
minister and secretary of legation now credited at~ima in relation to
this matter.
	Had I a vessel at my disposal, I would send her immediately to
Guayaquil and Payta to intercept this ship, or watch closely her
operations, but II have none, and at this crisis I do not think it would
be proper to leave this port. Such is the present state of aiThirs at
Acapulco that it is believed by both native and foreign population
that the presence of a man-of-war alone prevents an attempt to sack
and destroy the town by the Indians in the iuterior, encouraged by the
governor, General Alvarez, the despot of this portion of this miserably
governed country.
	The St. Marys, Captain lVliddleton, was at Valparaiso on the 16th
January, but she will be too far behind time to be of any assistance in
this matter on her arrival at Payta. Under the most favorable circum-
stances she could be of but little use in those latitudes, where there is
so much calm weather or light winds.
	I have no doubt whatever, from what I learned in my former cruise
along the coast, extending from Yalparaiso to Guayaquih, that funds
can be obtained from Englishmen alone to purchase and equip a vessel
of this description, and nothing but the vigilance of a proper and suffi-
cient force scattered along the coast, and the cooperation of our minis-
ters and consuls, will prevent such an attempt from being made.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHAS. H. BELL,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding Pacific Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Report of Acting Master Clark, U. S. Navy, comm udiny U. S. ship
Onward, ~f ernise ~f that vessel in Brazilian waters, transmitting cor-
respondence with U. S. consul at Bahia.

U.	S. SHIP ONWARD,
Rahia, February 23, 1864.
	SIR: Siimce my last communication to you I have the honor to report
that I I)rocceded to cruise on the line, gradually making my way toward
Fernando de Noronha, at which place I arrived on the 16th day of
January, 1864.
	Not receiving any information of the whereabouts of the rebel cruisers
in that phace I proceeded on my cruise toward time South American
coast and arrived off Pernambuco on the 22d day of January. By the
advice of the American consul at Pernambuco, I have remained on the
coast cruising between the former place and Bahia.
	Upon my arrival at Bahia, on the 28th day of January, to meet the
mail steamers, I communicated with the U. S. consul at that port,
from whom I received a communication, of which I enclose a copy. I
then proceeded to cruise on the coast to the northward and eastward
of Bahia. On my second arrival at Bahia to procure water, coal, and
wood, I received a comumunication from Captain Ghisson, of which I
also enclose a copy.
N W HVOL II3

Page 610

610	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNIoN.

	Trusting that my actions have been in accordance with the spirit of
my instructions, and prove satisfactory to the Department,
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedienV~servant,
WM. II. CLARK,
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Acting ]Jifaster, Commanding.

Secretary of the Navy, Washington.

[Enclosures.]

U.	S. SHIP ONWARD,

SIR:	I have the honor to inform t]iat Bahia, January 28, 1864.
	you	I have just arrived in this
port on a cruise in search of the privateers Alabama and Florida, or
any other vessel that may be engaged in the service of those who are
in rebellion against the Govern ment of the United States of America.
	I would thank you for any information you may have in rebard to
any such vessels.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. II. CLARK,
ommanding.
Hon. Tuos. F. WILSON,	Acting Master C
U. S. Consul, Bahia.



OONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Bahia, January 28, 1864.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
this date, asking for any information in my possession in regard to the
movement of vessels that may be employed in the service of those who
are in rebellion against the Government of the United States.
	rfhe English ship Berbice, of Liverpool, of (bout 700 tons burden
came into this port on the 11th December, 1863, and discharged about
900 tons of coal, which is stored on shore, an(l is in my opinion inten(led
as supplies for some of the privateers, from the fact that it is consigned
to Messrs. Johnston, Con~ber &#38; Co., who are not coal merchants, but
who supplied the Alabama and Georgia in this port on a former occasion.
	On the 10th instant the English steamer Annette, Captain H. Jones,
came into this port under the 1)retense of wanting to repair machinery,
but after communicating with the agents of the rebels desired to put
to sea again the same day, but was required to remain in port the usual
twenty-four hours.
	The A nnettc was said to be laden with coal, bound from London to
Hongkong, but from all I could learn, and from the general appearance
as well as from the conversation of her officers,lain convinced that she
is a consort of the lwivateers and has on board a cargo of supplies for
them. One or two of the crew of the Alabama accidentally left in this
port in May last took passage in the Annette. [Tile Annette] is about
600 toils burden, ship rigged, and low in the hull, and has unusually tall
masts an(1 long yards. I think she is altered into a bark rig when at
sea, and can carry a very large amount of canvas, and to all appear.
ances is very fast.
	The privateer Tuscaloosa called at the port of St. Catharines, Brazil,
on the 4th of December, 1863, and left the same day. A young man b

Page 611

OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSUNION.	611

the name of 0. L. P. iRicliblave, who professed to be an officer of the
Tuscaloosa, aceidentally left at St. Catbarines, passed here on the
English steamer of the 12th instant to Pernanibu~to, where he said he
expected to join the Tuscaloosa soon.
	I am convinced that the presence of a United States vessel of war on
this coast is necessary for the protection of our commerce, as some of
the privateers in all probability will be in this vicinity soon.
	I am informed by the U. S. comisul, Rio de Jaiteiro, that the U. S.
sloop of war Mohi can left Rio de Janeiro on the 8th of November, 1863,
for Cape Town, on the coast of Africa.
	I would therefore recommend you to remain on this coast cruising
between the equator and Rio de Janeiro, eallin g at Pernainbuco, Rio
de Janeiro, or this port frequently for information.
J have the honor to be, very respectfully, yours,
Tilos. F. WILSON,
U.	S. Consul.
Acting Master WILLIAM H. CLARK,
Commanding U. S. Ship Onward.



U.	S. S. MOHICAN.
Rio, February 3, 1861.
	SIR: If it is consistent with your instructions to remain at Bahia or
to the northward until I can come up the coast, I shall be obliged to
you. I leave for a short cruise to the south war(l and shall reach Bahia
about the 7th of March. It is important that one of our cruisers should
be to the northward on this coast.
	With many kind regards to our worthy consul, Mr. Wilson, and also
to all enquiring friends,
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	S. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
COMMANDINO- OFFICER,
U.	S. Ship Onward.



Report of Commander Collins, U. S. N commanding U. S. S. Waehu-
sett, of the readiness of that vessel for sailing.

U.	S. STEAM SLOOP WACHUSETT,
Port Royal, S. C., February 23, 1864.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report that we have finished coaling, the
la~u 40 tons of which was obtained from the army q nartertuaster here,
aiid being in all other respects ready for sea, I will leave this morn-
ing to carry out your confidential instructions of the 27th of January
last.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
N.	COLLINS,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 612

612	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Caidwell, U. S. Nary,
commanding U. S. S. Glaucus, to transport to his destination the newly
elected President of the United States of Colombia, and returning to
search for blockade runners.

NAvY DEPARTMENT, February 24, 1864.
	SIR: The Department has offered to Mr. Murillo, 110W IR New York,
who has beeii elected President of the United States of Colombia, a
passage in the U. S. S. Glaucus to Carthagena, or any other port in the
vicinity that he may l)refer. You will therefore receive him on board
the Glaucus and procce(l to sea on Saturday next, or as soon thereafter
as the vessel may be ready, and make the best of your way to such
port as he may designate.
	Provide Mr. Murillo with appropriate quarters, extend to him all the
courtesies dae to his high position, and land him at his port of desti-
nation with all the honors to which he i entitled.
	After discharging tile duty above indicated, return with all practi-
eai)le dispatch off Wilmington, N. C., and report to the senior coin-
manding officer there as a part of the North Atlantic Blockading
Squadron.
	Run near Nassau and Bermuda on your return passage, and be vigi-
lant to capture and send into port for adjudication, without infringing
upon neutral rights, any vessel or vessels you may find engaged in car-
rying contraband of war destined for blockaded ports, in violathy the
blockade, in the service of the insurgents, or in depredating upon our
commerce.
	There is a coal depot for the West India Squadron at Cape Haitien,
where you can touch if n
Curaao.	,	ecessary, for coal. We may also have coal at
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
	Commander C. H. B. CALDWELL,	Secretary of Navy.
Commanding U. S. S. Glaucus, New York.


Report of Captain Walke, i . S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Sacramento,
of the arrival of that vessel at the Island of Teneri/fe.
U. S. S. SACRAMENTO,
Santa Cruz, Teneriffe, February 26, 1864.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of this vessel at Santa
Cruz [Island of Tencriffe] on the morning of the 24th instant, four days
from Fayal. The Sacramento was detained at Fayal several days
longer than I anticipated by stormy weather w
receiving our coal.	, hich prevented us from
	The repairs of the engines of this vessel re so incomplete that our
engineers have been obliged to work at them all the time we are in
I)ort, and I shall be delayed here to-day in consequence. To-morrow I
will proceed on my cruise. I have received no intelligence of piratical
cruisers since I arrived here.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
HENRY WALKE,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 613

613
OPERATIONS OF ThE CRUISERSUNION.
Order of the Secretary ~f the Nary to Commander Murray, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Waterer, to report for duty to Acting Rear-Admiral
Bell, commanding Pacific Squadron.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, February 26, 1864.
	SIR: As soon as the U. S. S. Wateree is in all respects prepared for
the voyage proceed with her with all practicable (lispatch to the Pacific
Ocean and report to Acting Rear Admiral Charles LII. Bell for duty in the
squadron under his command. You are at liberty to take such route
as in your judgment will enable you to reach your station without
unnecessary delay, and to touch at such ports for coal or other supplies
as may be necessary.
	While enjoining upon you dispatch in reaching your destination, the
Department leaves it to your discretion to deviate from a direct route,
and expects you to do so should you learn of the presence of rebel
cruisers in your vicinity and think there is a reasonable prospect of
overtaking them.
	Advise the Department as you may have opportunity of the progress
of your voyage. Acting Rear Admiral Bell shall be informed of your
departure, and doubtless you will lind instructions from him at Yalpa-
raiso or some other point on the South American coast where the mail
steamers touch.
	I transmit herewith copies of the recent general orders of the Depart-
ment, act for the better government of the Navy, etc.
	Very respectfully, etc.,	GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.
	Commander F. K. MURRAY, U. S. Navy,
Commanding U. S. S. Wateree, Washington, D. C.



Report of Commander Preble, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship St.
Louis, giving list of supposed blockade runners cleared from Funchal,
Madeira.
U.	S. SLOOP OF WAR ST. LOUIS,
Funchal, Madeira, February 27, 1864.
	SIR: The following English Clyde-built steamers, supposed block-
ade runners, have recently coaled at this port and cleared at the date
for the destination named:
	January 4.Steamer Boric, for Nassau.
	January 6.Steamer Druid, for Nassau.
	January 10.Steamer Rose, for Nassau.
	January 31.Steamer Little Ada, for Nassau.
	February 11.Ste ruer Albion, fo~ Trinidad.
	February 2G.Screw steamer Greyhound, side-wheel steamer North
Heath, for Nassau.
	These vessels, having l)roper clearances, can not be interfered with
out here. The owner of the Greyhound died of delirium tremens on the
22d instant. I have thought it proper to make this communication,
that our cruisers on the blockade may be on the alert.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEOThTh hENRY PREBLE,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C

Page 614

614 OPERATIONS OF THU ORUISHUSIJNIoN.
RwoT~gf ObmmassJer Pr.bl% U. &#38; .Ywy, cesusediug U. &#38; aMp &#38; 
, of the arr4val of that emel atlvusehal,
	~ ~. &#38; .... ~ M.Qk,,...	J124e1r5 awl eaomseisv

U. S. SLOOP or Win ST. Loins,
.NueAai Bowls, HubErt., Februarsj .97, 1864.
Sri:	Ihavetoreportthe arrival of the St. Louis at this port on the
afternoon of the 22d,flvedaysfrom Faysi. At9 p.m.thesameday
our consul, George True, esq., died of smallpox after a short and severe
illness. In respect to his memory and office I waved our ensign at halt
mast throughout the day, and in the afternoon attended his funeral
with as many of the officers as could be spared from duty, and fired
from the shi p a consuls salute of minute guns. The officers of the ship
have subscribed to erect a tablet to his memory in the strangers ceme-
tery, there his remains are buried, and have addressed to Mrs. True a
letter of condolence, a duplicate of which is herewith transmitted.
~	an
infant but 6 months old without any resources to find her way back
to her native land, and &#38; ependent upon the charity and generosity of
those friends her husband had obtained during his brief resldbnce on
the island. Robert J3ayman, esq., our former vice-consul, and during
Mr. Trues Illness acting for him2 has generously offered to provide the
means for restoring her to herfrrends In Ohio, and hr her support until
she is able to endure the journey. He also proposes, if permitted to
hold the office of consul through the present year, to devote the net
proceeds of.the office, its salary and perquisites, to the sole benefit of
Mrs. Tru&#38; Ashe designs taking up his residencein the United States
next year, during the education of his on ly sonz and could only accept
this temporary appointment for the end In view, his offer is purely
philanthropic, and I sincerely hope may be accepted. Mr. Bayman us
well known to all our naval commanders who havevisited Madeira, and,
though au Englishman by birth, is heart and soul for the cause of the
North. Considering It necessary that in times like the present, when
there is no knowing from hour to hour or from day to day what may
occur, I bare given Mr. Bayman an appointment to act as U. S. consul
until the wishes of the Department of State are made known to him, a
copy of which is annexed. I hope my action in this matter may be
approved of by the Department, and that you will lend your Influence
 to secure an appointment, the best that couldbe made for our country,
and that will supply- the necessities of the widow and fatherless.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	GEORGE Hunt PunLE,
	Ron; GiDEoN WELLUs,	&#38; 
Secretary of the Itwy, Washington, D.C.


Report of CVommasderrrel4 U. &#38; Inr, eomasaesdl.sg U. &#38; ship &#38; Louis,
of the arrival at Anseh4 Jfade.ra, of the a &#38; &#38; Florida

U. S. Sz.oor or Win ST. Louis,
rmwhai Roads, Hadesra, February 28, 1864.
Sri: The rebel steamer Florida, commanded by (LW. Morris, formerly
the U. S. Navy, arrived here last night, reporting as eighteen days
from Brest and requiring a supply of coal, bread, etc. An Englis

Page 615

OPERATIONS OF THE (ATUISERSUNION.	615~

merchant named Blandy has engaged to suppiy her with 110 tons of
coal, but the governor has informed her commander that he can neither
coal, water, nor obtain provision on the island, and must go to sea.
Whether the governor will have the firmness to carry out this iiiten-
tion remains to be seen. The impression is that she will be coaled clan-
destinely at night. After blowing a gale from N. W. from the 22d (the
date of our arrival) until day before yesterday, the winds are now light
and varied by calms. I shall, however, follow the Florida to sea, and
bring her to action if I can, which is doubtful, as her commander said
01) shore to-day his business was not to fight, but to destroy com-
merce, and he could not afford a shot among his machinery, because
he could not get it repaired. She is said to have a spare engine-
on board, or the principal parts of one, for needed repairs. She has a
liberal supply of officers, and is reported as having 117 men, but wants
to ship 40 more, for which they are offering $50 advance to each.
Wheu asked how he would pay for the coals, the paymaster showed
the merchant Bank of England notes, American $20 gold pieces, and
English sovereigns, and told him he might have his choice.
	I congratulate myself for having appointed Mr. Bayman to act as
consul, as his influence with the governor and in the conmiunity is very
great, and his services are at this time invaluable.
	If not permitted to coal here, I think the Florida will beyond a doubt
go to Teneriffe, where the Georgia was coaled, and where I hope she
may find the Sacramento.
	My crew are eager to fight the Florida, and there is no doubt the
result would be successful could she be brought I)ropeLly to action.
With her steam power she can, however, laugh at my canvas, and
choose to fight or run as she prefers. Oh, for a little steam! The men
are also very desirous to cut her out with the boats, and it could be
done, but that your instructions strictly forbid such use of friendly
waters.
	I close this communication, as I may go to sea at any moment, but if
I can learn anything new about this rebel vessel or her movements
before sailing shall hasten to advise you.
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEo. HENRY PEEBLE,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander Preble, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship St.
Louis, advising establishment of coal depot at Funchal, Madeira.

U. S. SLOOP OF WAR ST. Louis,
Funekal Roads, ]Jfadeira, February 28, 1864.
	SIR:	From its central position this island is likely to be the frequent
resort of our steamers for a supply of coals. I wouldtherefore respect-
fully suggest to the Department, for the following reasons, the propriety
of establishing a coal depot at this port:
	There are but two coal merchants here, Messrs. Stewart and Blandy,
Englishmen and rivals in trade, whose principal business at this time
is to supply blockade runners, though quite willing to supply a rebel
pirate or one of our vessels of war. holding the monopoly, they have
it in their power either to charge our vessels any price they l)least~ or,
as they have threatened, to refuse to supply them at any price

Page 616

(31(3	OPERATIONS OF TILE CRIJISERS-UNION.

	Again, the ~uppiy of coal is not always certain. Two months ago
not a ton was to be procured. The French squadron was obliged to go
away with a half supply and l)lockade runners c~mpel1ed to delay until
coals arrived from England.
	The establishment of a coal depot, by the employment it would
necessarily give to poor 1)CoPIC, must tend to increase the good and
friendly feeling already existing toward a country that has on more
than one occasion relieved them from starvation.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant
	GEG. HENRY .PREBLE,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander, U. S. Nav~j.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



Order of ~iJaptain Price, U. S. Navy, senior officer present at Macao
China, to Commander ]IilicDougal, commanding U. S. S. Wyoming, to
proceed to Bombay in search of C. S. S. Alabama.

U.	S. SHIP JAMESTOWN,
Underway, off ]Ifacao, February 28, 1864.
	SIR: I think it advisable you should proceed to Bombay with all dis-
patch to look after the Alabama, touchi~ig at Singapore for any addi-
tional intelligence concerning that vessel.
	Upon yowr arrival at Bombay you will be governed in your subseqnent
movements by circumstances and your general orders from the Navy
Department.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
CICERO PRICE,
Captain and Senior Officer Present.
	Commander D. MODOUGAL,
U.	S. S. Wyoming, ]Jfacao.


[Telegram.]

FORT MONROE, VA., February 29, 1864.
(Received at Washington 10 p. in.)
	I have reliable information that a party has already started from
Nassau to California to take passage on an Aspinwall steamer and cap.
ture her at sea, as in the case of the Che~apea1ce, and under one of the
same leaders. T will send particulars by mail to-morrow. I have tele-
graphed to California to the agent of the steamship company there to
put them on their guard.
BENJ. F. BUTLER,
mmanding.
Captain G. V. Fox,	Major- General Co
Assistant Secretary Navy.

[Endorsement.l

	I would send word also to Cornelius Vanderbilt and Allan MeLane,
president Pacific Mail Steamship Company, New York.
[G. V. Fox.

Page 617

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	617

Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Javy, commanding U. S. S. ]Ilohican, of
the cruise qf that vessel, transmitting correspondence with U. S. consuls
in South American ports.
U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Rio [Brazil], February 29, 1864.
	SIR: I have to report to the honorable Secretary the return of the
U. S. S. ]Jliohican to this port from a cruise to the southward, having
touched at St. Catharines, l3neuos Ayres, and Montevideo, aud all the
islands in the entrance of the J~i() de Ia Plota, and I could obtain no
correct information in relation to the movements of the rebel vessels,
notwithstanding it was reported that the Tuscaloosa was in that vicinity,
and I am convinced that the report made to our consul at St. Catha-
rines was a sheer fabrication. II herewith enclose it, and also the cor-
respondence between myself and our consuls at Montevideo and Buenos
Ayres.
	There are so many reports on this coast in relation to the movements
of the rebel vessels that it is almost impossible to know what to do.
I am, very respectfully, your obedieimt servant,
	0.	5. GLISSON,
		Captain, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
[Enclosures.]

CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES,
ASt. Catharines, February 12, 1864.
	SIR:	It may be of importance to inform you that I learn from Cap-
tain William H. I)ingee, who arrive(1 here this morning from Paranagua
in the steamer Imperadoi , from Rio (Ic Janeiro, that the brig Don Pedro
Segundo, Captain Silveira, from Rio de Janeiro, arrived at Paranagna
5th instant. Captain Silveira informed Captain 1Dm gee, at Paranagna,
that on his passage from Rio de Janeiro, near Santos, he fell in with a
bark, tender to the Confederate cruiser Alabama. The crew of the bark
being in a suffering condition from want of provisions, Captain Silveira
supplied her as far as he was able to do. The captain of the bark stated
that he had a few days previously overhanled a felucca from Monte-
video, with a car go of jerked beef for Rio de Janeiro, amid obtained from
her a quantity of jerked beef.
	The captain of the bark appeared quite communicative and appar-
ently frank, and staled that he was then bound to the River of Plate
[Rio de la Plata], his station being in a cove behind the island of Flores,
95 miles from Montevideo, from whence he was enabled to await the
passage of vessels of the Unite States. lie appeared to be flush of
money, and paid liberally for his supplies. He stated that the Alabama
had lost many of her men by yellow t~ver at the Cape of Good Hope,
and had now gone to the vicinity of Cape Horn to recruit. He stated
that the bark had taken two prizes, which evidently had been the Liv-
ing Age and another, burned; both before his recent visit to this port,
if, as is probable, the bamk was the Tuscaloosa.
	Captain Dingee, from whom I obtain this report, is a native of New
York who has resided in Brazil during the last twenty-five years, and
is probably well known in your city as master in the coasting trade
between Rio and St. Catharimmes and a man of veracity. His report,
for whatever it may be worth, is at least undoubtedly authentic

Page 618

(318	OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSUNION.

	The ship Pyramid, Captain Agan, from New York, via Bermuda and
Nassau, 800 tons burden, with a cargo of about 700 tons coals and 100
tons , bonnd to Hongkong, China, arrived at this port 11th
instant in distress, leaky, and will probably be condemned. I have
seen and conversed with Captain Agan, who, however, appears some-
what shy of me, and from present appearances will put his vessel
under Portuguese or other jurisdiction than mine.
	The Pyramid sails under the British flag, and is said to be owned
by an English merchant, only for a short time l)ast a resident of the
United States. The captain says that he desired to put ill at Rio de
Janeiro, but his officers and crew nnited in signing a paper addressed
to him refusing to do so, on account of the yellow fever at that
place.
	It may be all straightforward, correct business, but some of the cir-
cumstances have appeared to me a little suspiciousher alleged own-
ership and coming from Nassau. It is probable that her cargo of coal
may have been, or I)erhaps still is, iimtended for the Confederate cruis-
ers, and therefore brought to this place (where there is no demand for
coal) that it may be more convenie~itly reshipped hence than at Rio.
Captain Agan is a Frenchman, but also speaks English and Portu-
guese. His vessel is at the anchorage at Santa Cruz, 13 miles below
this city.
	My suspicions are purely original, arid may be without a shadow of
foundation; yet, as I was writing to you, it may do [no] harm to men-
tion them.
I remain, with the highest respect, your obedient servant,
B.	LINDSEY,
Consul.
[Captain 0. 5. GLISSON, U. S. Navy,
U.	S. S. ]ilohican.]


U. S. S. MOHICAN,
Montevideo, February 8, 1864.
	SIR:	I have this moment anchored in this harbor and am in chase of
the Alabama and Tuscaloosa. Will you do me the favor to give me all
the information in your possession in relation to the movements of these
piratical vessels?
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
		0. 5. GLISSON,
	HIRAM TUTTLE, Esq.,	Captain, U. S. Navy.
U.	S. Consul, 111 ontevideo.


CONSULATE OF THE ITNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Montevideo, February 18 [8], 1864.
	SIR:	In reply to your official communication of the 8th instant,
requesting me to give you all the information in my possession relative
to the movements of the piratical rebel privateers Alabama and Tus-
caloosa, I have to say that I have no in formation of these privateers or
any others having been upon this coast as far south as the latitude of
the River Plate [Rio (le ia~ Plata]. The latest information that I have
obtained in regard to the whereabouts of the Alabama places her i

Page 619

619
OPERATIONS OF THE CIiUISERSUNION.
the China Sea, on the 10th of November last, cruising about the island
(if Sumatra. Of the movements of the Tuscaloosa I have no definite
in formation.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
HIRAM TUTTLE.
	Captain 0. 5. (i~LIsSON, U. S. Navy,
U.	S. S. ]Jfohiean.

U.	S. S. MOITICAN,
Buenos Ayres, February 9, 1864.
	SIR: I have this moment anchored in this harbor, and am in chase
of the Alabama and Tusealoo~a. Will you do me the favor to give me
all the information in your possession in relation to the movements of
these piratical vessels ~
1 am, very resj)ectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
HINTON li. HELPER, Esq.,
U.	S. Consul, Buenos Ayres.


U.	S. CONSuLATE,
Buenos Ayres, February 10, 1864.
	SIR: I have the pleasure to ackliowledge receipt of your letter of the
9th instant (yesterday), informing me that you have just arrived in this
port in search of two hostile war crafts, the Alabama and the Tuscaloosa,
and requesting me to put you in possession of whatever information I
may have in relation to those rebel pirates.
	Extending to you, and to all your comrades of the lkliohican, a hearty
welcome to the waters of the la Plata, an(l regretting that the public
interests and your important duties connected therewith will, as you
have said to me, permit you to remain with us but a few days, I am
sorry to have to inform you that I know nothing at all of the present
location or probable location or movements of either of the piratical
vessels for which you are now searching.
	As a matter, however, of some possible interest to you, I may say,
with reference to the Tuscaloosa, that in June last the same vessel, then
a leoitimate American merchant bark~ the Conrad of Philadelphia,
Captain William 11. Sanlsbury, was in this port, and that she cleared
hence, on the 5th of that month, for New York, with 183 bales of wool,
which cost, as per invoices, 22,801 silver dollars, shipped by Thomas
Armstrong, esq., an English sul~ject, resident in this city, and 64 bales
of wool and $30 bales of goatskins, which cost, as per invoices, 9,111
silver (lollars, shipped by Henry J. Ropes, esq., an American citizen,
also resident in this city.
	A few weeks after the Conrad had sailed from this port information
was received here that she had been captured by the Alabama, or by
some other l)irate, and at once armed under the name of Tuscaloosa and
turned loose to prey on American commerce.
	Neither the Alabama n&#38; r the Tuscaloosa, nor any kindred craft, nor
armed vessel showing the disreputable flag which they fly, has, I am
happy to be able to inform you, ever yet been seen in this port.
I am, sir, with great respect, your obedient servant,
H.	H. HELPER.
Captain OLIVER S. GLISSON,
Commander of the U. S. War Steamer Mohican, Buenos A~,res

Page 620

620	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Montevideo, February 12, 1864.
	IDEAR SIR: This city is now invested by the forces under General
[Venancioj Flor&#38; s. ~Some fighting has taken place in the vicinity, and
an attack upon the place is daily apprehended. Should an attack be
made upon the town, it is believed by many that there will be a rising
of his friends inside, ~vliich would lead to coinmotioti , street fighting,
and general insecurity. Uiider these circumstances, and upon consul-
tation with Americans here, I deem it advisable to ask you to proceed
to this port with the steamer under your command as soon as your
engagements will permit, in or(ler that we may have the support and
security that your presence will inspire, should such an emergency
arise.
Tam, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
HIRAM TUTTLE.

	Captain 0. 5. 0-LISSON,
U.	AS~. ~. Mohican, Buenos Ayres.



U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Montevideo, February 16, 1864.
	SIR: I have received your letter of the 12th instant in relation to
the insecurity of American citizens and their l)roperty, in consequence
of this plaee being besieged by General Flor~s. I have returned with
the U. S. S. Mohican with as little delay as possible and
give every protection that m y be required. , am ready to
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. GLISSON,
Captain, U. AS~. Navy.
HIRAM TUTTLE, Esq.,

U.	~. Consul, Montevideo.



CONSULATE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
Montevideo, February 18, 1864.
	SIR: The revolutionary forces of General Flor~s having now with-
drawn froni the investment of the city without effecting any result,
there is no longer a probability of any emergency arising at the present
time, as anticipated in my communication of the 12th instant, wherein
the presence of a man-of-war would be required for the better protec-
tion and security of American citizens an(I property at this port.
	Thanking you for the promptness with which you have responded to
the request for your presence with the steamer under your command
to afford protection in case of need,
I remain, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
HIRAM TUTTLE.

	Captain 0. 5. GLISSON, U. S. Navy,
U.	S~ AS~. Mohi can

Page 621

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	621

Letter from the U. S. consular agent at Calais to Captain Winslow,
U.	S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kearsarge, giving description of the
C.	S. S. Rappahannock.

UNITED STATES CONSULAR AGENCY,
Calais [France], February 29, 1864.
	SIR: I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 26th
instant, which I received oniy on the 28th.
	I am also in possession of your telegram dated in Dover the 25th
instant, 9:18 oclock in the morning. This message having been sent,
1 do not know why, through the Belgian line, reached my office only at
2:30 in the afternoon, and I answered it as follows:
Captain WINSLOW,
Vorvette Aearsarge, Dover [England]:
Message arrived half past 2. Rappahannock always here; you can coal here.

	I think you have done well in going to Boulogne, for if you had come
into our harbor surely the Rappahannocic would not have gone out, or
you would have been obliged to allow her tweiity-four hours advance.
	As I thought you were to stay a few days in Cherbourg, 1 had written
to Mr. Edouard Liais, in order to give you some information respecting
the Confederate steamer, but as you are now for a few days in Boulogne
I shall give you the description of the Rappahannock the best I can.
	She is a screw steamer, measuring about 600 tons, exclusive of the
room taken by the engine, which makes a full measurement of about
750 tons register. She has two chimneys, rather low, but very large;
they can be laid fiat on the deck by means of a lever. This vessel is
very long and rather round aft; though she is very low upon the water,
the copper sheathing still appears above the load water line. She has
three masts; the mainmast and foremast are furnished with main yards,
topsail yards, and [top] gallant sail yards; the mizzen has only one pole;
the sails are extremely large for such a vessel. She is all painted black
and has four boats aft, two on each side; the figure is white and rather
far ahead.
	The captain has taken more coal than the coal holes [holds] could hold,
and a great quantity is stowed all about the deck. The crew is not com-
plete (about sixty men) and Captain Campbell does not seem in great
hurry to leave our harbor. Nobody can know his intention on this mat-
ter, and it will only be known for certain when the vessel will be seen
leaving the harbor.
	The Rappahannock has been seen several times with steam up all
ready to go out, but it was merely to try her engine, which has been
repaired here, and the new screw she has received.
	As soon as I am aware of something new concerning the Rappahan-
nock I shall inform you of it at once in Boulogne, as long as you have
not advised your departure for another harbor.
I am, sir, yours, respectfully,
YENDItOUX,
U. S. Consular Agent.
Captain WINSLOW,
U.	S. S. Kearsarge, /3oulogne [France]

Page 622

622	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Order from the Secretary 01 the Nary to Acting Rear-Admiral Bell,
U. S. Navy, commanding Pacific Squadron, regarding the U. S. S. Nar-
ragansett.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, March 1, 1864.

	SIR: The Department has received your No. 15, in reference to the
Narragansett.
	The departure of the Narragansett has beeii so long delayed that were
she to leave at this time site would have to double the cape in the rough-
est weather. You can therefbre detain her until further orders, and she
can be made as serviceable as possible with slight and temporary
repairs. The commandant at Mare Island has been telegraphed on the
subject.
Very respectfully, etc.,
GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of Navy.
	Acting Rear-Admiral CHAS. H. BELL
Commanding Pacific Squadr~n, Panama.



Report of Commander Preble, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship St.
Louis, of the escape from Funchal, Madeira, of the C. S. S. Florida.

U.	S. SLOOP OF WAR ST. LOUIS,
Funchal Roads, Madeira, March1,186~1:~O a. m.
	SIR: Th~e Florida has succeeded in getting to sea. I shall follow her
at once, though hopeless of catching her out of port. Nelson said the
want of frigates in his squadron would be found impressed on his heart.
I am sure the want of steam will be found engraven on mine. Had the
St. Louis been a steamer, I would have anchored alongside of her, and,
unrestricted by the twenty-four-hour rule, my old foe could not have
escaped me.
	The governor, true to his declared intention, would only allow her to
take on board 20 tons of coal, sufficient to take her to the nearest port.
Her commander pleaded for 60 tons, next 40 tons, asserting he needed
that much to ballast his vessel. The governor told him, at the sugges-
tion of Mr. [Roberti Bayman, that he came in without it, and he thought
he could go without it but if ballast was wanted there was plenty of
stone on the beach he might take.
	As it was supposed she would go to sea during the night, and cer-
tainly in the morning, and I had intimation that she might in passing
us pour in a broadside, I shotted and cast loose my guns, and had men
on deck to man them, got a slip rope on the chain, and stationed look-
outs all over the ship and in the tops, cautioned the officers to extra
vigilance, and was repeatedly on (leck myself to watch and see that my
orders were executed. The night was dark and squally; the Florida
lay close in to the beach and under the highland, with all her lights cov-
ered, and notwithstanding all this vigilance crept out unseen to the
eastward, and her departure was not discovercd until the moon rose, a
few minutes since. A blockade runner, the Julia, which arrived in the
afternoon, reports the Kearsarge as having left Cadiz three days ago,
destination unknown. The Florida gave out they were going to Cadiz
for coals, but I think not, and shall go direct to Teneriffe, hoping, if I
do not find her there, to put the Sacramento on her track. The prevail

Page 623

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	623

ing winds would not permit me to get to Cadiz from Madeira in season
to do her any in.jury, even if I thought that port her destination. The
authorities here have done all that they could to hasten her departure
and prevent her full supply, and I do not imagine the island will be
troubled by the presence of rebel vessels of war very soon again. I
waited upon the governor to inform him of her intention to ship men
to complete her crew. He assured me it should not be allowed, though
it might be done clandestinely, which he could not help. 1 have reason
to believe she made 1)0 ad(litions to her crew, and know from the state.
ments of my gigs crew that three of the men she brought with her
deserted. Her crew is described to me as made up of Spaniards, French-
men, and Portuguese, with a few Englishmen and but one American.
Her first lieutenant is Thomas L. Dornin, formerly a midshipman in
our service.
	I notice no change in the appearance of the Florida since I last saw
her, except that now she has yards upon her mainmast; then she had
none, and she has changed her billethead for a shield surrounded by
scroll work, on which is borne the arms of the rebel States. She in
every respect resembles the picture of the kappahannoek published in
Harpers Weekly January 16, except that her masts are rather longer
and slenderer, and the steam escape pipe on the aft smokestack is for-
ward of it instead of abaft, as in the picture. They must be about the
same size, and sister ships. My men have been wild to fight, and I drew
the shot from my guns the day she came in, fearing in their excitement
they would fire into her without orders and break the neutrality of this
port.
	One thing is certain, the Florida does not intend to fight unless the
chances are largely in her favor, fbr she has skulked away from the old
~t. Louis.
	Ii regret the necessity which urges me to [take] your time and patience
with the perusal of so long and such frequent communications, and
relying that my actions here in the iml)ortant duties that have devolved
upon me will meet the approval of the Department,
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
GEO. HENRY PREBLE,
Commander, U. ~. Navy.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
&#38; eretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.



[Telegram. I

NEW YORK March 2 1864.
(Received at Washington 12:15 p. nl.)
	General Butler advises that a party has left Nassau to capture a
California treasure steamer. Should you (lesire to communicate with
the gunboat (ilaucus at Carthagena, the steamer to-morrow will connect
with the English Carthagena steamer at Aspinwall.
ALLAN MOLANE,
President.
G.	V. Fox,
Assistant Secretary Navy

Page 624

624	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy,
cwnmanding U. S. S. Kear arge, in view of a possible challenge to that
vessel by Confederate steamers in French ports~

NAVY DEPARTMENT, March 2, 1864.
	SIR:	I have received your No. 2, with its enclosures, dated Cadiz,
February 4, 1864, in reference to the rumored designs of a joint attack
by the rebel cruisers in French ports on the Kearsarge. In case of
such an attack, which, however, I do not consider probable, the Depart-
ment will rely on the Kearsarge to defend herself and cripple or Cc ~}
ture her assailants. Experience teaches us that they do not seek, even
if they desire, a contest with our vessels of equal force, but on the con-
trary avoid it, preferring a criminal career upon unarmed rnerchantmen.
	Newspaper correspondents speak of a challenge havin~ been sent, or
[thatj is to be sent, to the Kearsarge by one or more of the pirates.
To accept such a challenge, or to send one to them, would be to recog-
nize them as on terms of equality, elevating to them, but degrading to
ourselves.
Very respectfully, etc.,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Captain JNO. A. WINSLOW,	Secretary of the Navy.
Commanding U. ~. S. Kearsarge, Brest, France.


Report of Captain Walk-c, U. S. Navy, qommanding U. S. S. Sacramento,
of arrival at Porto Grande, St. Vincent, Cape Verde Islands.
U.	S. S. SACRAMENTO,
Porto Grande, Island of St. Vincent, March 2, 1864.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report the arrival of the Sacramento at this
port to-day, four days from Santa Cruz, Teneriffe. The amount of coal
which this vessel carries in her coal bunkers being insufficient to sup-
ply us with steam from Teneriffe to l3ahia, I deemed it my duty to take
in a full supply at this port, which is on my way, and where it is put
on board without delay. I will take in all the coal I can conveniently
carry to-morrow morning, and sail immediately for Iahia, agreeable to
your instructions. I have no certain intelligence of piratical cruisers
in the Atlantic, although I received a letter from Pernambuco this
morning, dated December 30, whi cli intbrmed me that a suspicious
steamer was seen in latitude 70 N. and longitude 270 W., but the
description of her answers that of the ]Jliohi can. The American steamer
Kin Kiang, sixteen days from New York, took in coal at this port two
or three days since and proceeded on her way to (Jhiiia.
	Jam, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	HENRY WALKE,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Captain, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of arrival at Cura9ao, West Indies.
FLAGSHIP POWHATAN,
Cura9ao [West Indiesj, March 3, 1864.
	SIR:	I report the arrival of this ship yesterday from a cruise among
the Windward Islands

Page 625

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS-UNION.	62t

	After Living filled up with coal I shall proceed to Cape ilaitien.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	1. LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadran.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,

Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Commander Preble, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship St.
Louis, of the pursuit by that vessel of the C. S. S. Florida, transmitting
copy of letter to the U. S. consul at Teneriffe.

U.	S. SLOOP OF WAR ST. LouIs,
Santa Cruz, Island of Teneriffe, March 7, 1864.
	SIR: I have the honor to report that immediately after closing my
last dispatch, on the morning of the 1st, informing you of the depar-
ture of the rebel steamer Florida from Funchal ~Madeira], I left that
port in pursuit and arrived here last evening. On my arrival I learned
that the Florida came in on the afternoon of ti e 4th, took on board 70
tons of coal, and left on the afternoon of the 5th, just twenty-four
hours before our arrival, standing out to the southward. She will prob-
ably coal again at St. Vincent, Cape Verde [Islands], and either resume
her cruising on the line or go to the south of it, but as I have no defi-
nite knowledge of her intentions and have reached the limits of my
cruising gronud, agreeably to your instructions, I shall pursue her no
farther. The Sacramento left here on the 27th for the Cape Verde
Islands, but I fear will have left them before she hears of the Florida.
But for a heavy S. W. and N. W. gale, which we encountered on the
3d and 4th, which drove us to the eastward of the Salvages and was
followed by light calm weather, we would have again found the Florida
in J)ort.
	On the morning of the 3(1 instant, when 120 miles from Madeira, we
were 1)assed by a bark-ridged steamer which overhauled us and proved
[to be] the English mail steamer Athenian, which left Madeira on the
2d and arrived at Tenerifie on the 3d. I left a letter at Madeira to be
forwarded by that steamer, addressed to our consul here, informing
him of the presence of the Florida in that port, a copy of which I
enclose. The meeting of this steamer affords another instance ~f the
impracticability of the St. Louis or any sailing vessel chasing success-
fully a steamer, and her reporting us on the track doubtless hurried
the Florida from this port. If it is considered necessary to keep sailing
vessels at sea, I beg to respectfully recomuiend they should be armed
with heavy rifled cannon, otherwise in calm and light winds they can
only be helpless targets for the enemy. The commander of the Florida
repeated here what he said in Madeirathat he had no wish to meet
the St. Louis except in a calm. Had he gone out to the northward
instead of to the southward of Teneriffe the night before last he would
have had his wish gratified, as we were becahned only 32 miles to the
northward of the island.
	In addition to my hurried report from Madeira of the departure of
the Florida from that island, which it was beyond the means at my
command to prevent, I think it is proper for me to say that I could not
get underway or keep underway to watch the Florida before she moved
without losing my position to windward, owing to the lightness of the
N W RVOL 114

Page 626

626	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.

wind and the current setting to the eastward, and that I could at no
time have prevented her escape without violating the neutrality of the
port, had her commander chosen to have steam d directly for me. It
would have been worth to us the loss of life that must have occurred
had she poured in, as it was intimated she would, her broadside in pass-
ing, as the act must have outlawed her and her sister corsairs in the
l)orts of every civilized nation, and we were ready to return ours.
	The two vessels were anchored within half a mile of each other, the
St. Louis in the usual man-of-war anchorage, three cables length south
by compass of Loo Rock [Funchal Harbor], the Florida close to the
beach, abreast of the Pillar (so called and marked on the chart), where
a sailing vessel would have no room to get underway. The blockade
runner Julia, painted white, and anchored ahead [of] and almost lapping
the Florida, was plainly visible all night, and the Floridas dark hull,
to my oft and anxious enquiries, was reported to be in sight and pointed
out until within a few minutes of the time it was discovered she had
eloped. It would seem that the hull of another vessel was mistaken for
the Florida. Until after midnight the wind was light from W. N. W.
to W. S. W. (marked 1 for force on the log book), and varied by
squalls, so that we rode in 30 fathoms water with only 40 fathoms
chain. Unless disposed to wait and fight us, we could at no time have
overtaken the Florida chasing to leeward, and supposing we overhauled
her, she had only to steam to windward, choose a position beyond the
range of our battery, and give us the weight of 130-pounder rifles, my
only efficient guns at long range being our two 20-pounder Parrotts.
My great oJ~ject was to dctain her in Madeira as long as possible by
obstructing her coaling and supplies, hoping for the arrival of the Kear-
sarqe, which I heard had left Cadiz.
	The agents of the Florida managed the coaling business very bun-
glingly. There were two or three cargoes afloat in the roads, which
might have been sent to sea to meet and coal her at some appointed
retI(lezvous, without our being able to prevent it. The governor was
desirous I should assent to the twenty-four-hour rule established by
England and France, but I told him that, aside from its giving a
steamer every advantage over a sailing vessel, I could not assent, as
Portugal had not, to my knowledge, allowed belligerent rights to the
rebels, and that I should follow her to sea if prudent to do so.
	1 believe I have done all that a naval commander could (10 under the
circunistances, and hoping to receive the approval of the Department,
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	GEO. HENRY PREBLE,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. 0.

I Enclosurej

Extracts from letter to U. S. consul at Teneriffe.

U. S. SLooP OF WAR ST. Louis,
Funchal, Island ]J/fadeira, February 29, 1864.
	MY PEAR Sru: The -Florida arrived here night before last and is still
in Port. She reports herself as eighteen days from Brest, in want of
coals, provisions, and water. The governor refused at first to allow
her to coal, but has granted permission to take on board 20 tons to
enable her to proceed to the nearest port. She will probably go from
here to Santa Cruz, Teneriffe with
the Sacramento.	,	that object, and I hope may mee

Page 627

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUiSERSUNION.	627

	Please communicate this to Captain Walke. If in port I shall watch
her movements and follow her to sea, but without the anticipation of
l)ringing her to action, as her commander says hi~ mission is not to
fight, but [to] destroy our commerce.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

	Please communicate this information to any naval commanders in
your neighborhood and to our consuls at the Cape Yerde Islands.
	Yours, very truly,
GEO. Hx~. PREBLE,
Commander, U. S. Navy.
	W. II. BARNEY, Esq.,
U.	S. Consul, Teneriffe.



Report of Captain Glisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. ]Iifohiean,
from Bahia, Brazil, transmitting information regarding Confederate
vessels.
U.	S. S. MOHICAN,
Bahia, March 8, 1864.
	SIR: I have to report to the honorable Secretary of the Navy that I
have arrived at this port and have received the enclosed communica-
tion from our consul, Thomas F. Wilson. esq., and shall sail imme-
diately for Cape St. Augustine [Brazil]. While writing this the U. S.
ship Onward has come in from a cruise to the northward of this l)ort.
I am, v~ry respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. GLISSON,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy.
[Enclosure.l

U.	S. CONSULATE,
Bahia, March 7, 1864.
	SIR: Enclosed please find a copy of a letter from the captain of the
British brig Belie of the Miersey, which he handed me on the 25th
February last, on his arrival in this port from Pernambuco, a copy of
which I forwarded to you at Rio de Janeiro by the steamer of the 1st
instant.
	This is the only information I have in regard to the movements of
the pirates.
	About the middle of January last the British ship Berbice came into
this port laden with coal, which has been stored on shore and in niy
opinion is intended as supplies for some of the l)irates.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
THOMAS F. WILSON,
U.	S. Consul.
0.	5. GLISSON,
Commander, U. S. S. Mohican.

[Bubenclosure.]

BAHIA, February 25, 1864.
	On Sunday, the 21st day of February, at 3 p. in., Cape St. Augustine
[Brazil] bearing N. W. by compass, distant 110 miles, saw a three

Page 628

628	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

masted fore-and-aft screw steamer steaming northward. She then
came toward us and hoisted the English ensign and ran up 4910;
answer 3 pdt. 8175. She then hoisted the Confe~rate flag and steamed
again northward.
E.	11. HoBLYN.


Letter from Colonel Baker, agent for the War Department, to the Secre-
tary of War, giving information of the presence in Canadian ports of
two armed schooners intended for piratical purposes.

WAsHINOJf ON CITY, 1). C., Miarch 8, 1864.
	SIR: Herewith I have the honor to forward a statement furnished
by one of my agents, who has been in Upper Canada for some two
months. The statement can be relied upon as being true in every par-
ticular:
	There is nuw lying in Rondean Harbor, about 17 miles from Chatham, Canada
West, a fore-and-aft schooner named the Montrcal, commanded by one Captain
Whithy, formerly a lieutenant in the Confederate Navy. She has on board two
24-pounders, a quantity of animunition, arias chests, cutlasses, boarding pikes, etc.
She has also a crew of fourteen men, nearly all escaped rebel l)risoiiers.
	There is also lying in New Creek, Long Point Marsh, and about 15 miles from Port
Stanley, Canada West, a schooner named the Saratoga. She has four 18-pounders on
board and is manned with a crew of sixteen men.
	Both of the vessels referred to are not dismantled, as is usual during the winter
months in that climate, but are kept in sailing condition at the shortest notice.

	My infoimant has mingled and talked freely with the crews of these
vessels, and they do not hesitate to avow their piratical intentions as
soon as iiavigation is resumed in the spring.
I am, sir, your obedient servant,
L.	C. BAKER,
Colonel and Agent, War Department.
	Hon. E. M. STANTON
Secretary of War.



Report of Captain Wisson, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Mohican,
of the arrieal of that vessel at Pernambuco, Brazil, from cruising off
Cape St. Augustine.
U. S. S. MOnICAN,
Pernambuco, March 11, 1864.
	SIR: I have to report to the honorable Secretary of the Navy the
arrival of the U. S. S. Mohican at this port, and that I cruised off Cape
St. Augustine and could learn nothing of the mysterious steamer men-
tioned in Consul Wilsons letter to me, dated 7th March, 18~4, and
enclosed to the I)epartment on the 8th March from Bahia. The impres-
sion at Peruambuco is that the statement of Captain Hoblyn was a
fabrication, for they say if this vessel had been where he stated that
the people of Pernambuco must have known of her movements, as C ape
~t. Augustine is only 12 miles from Pernambuco and there is hourly
communication with the cape.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
0.	5. G-LISSON,

Captain, U. S. Navy.
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy

Page 629

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	629

Report of Acting Master Clark, U S. Nary, commanding U. S. ship
Onward, regarding the cause of delay in departure from Bahia,
Brazil.

U. S. Sui~ ONWARD,
Port of Bahia, March 12, 1864.
	Siu:	I have the honor to enclose heiewith a copy of cominuiiication
from the consul of the United States at this port.
	The U. S. steam sloo}) Mohican having sailed from this port on the
8th instant for the United States, via Pernambuco, I have deemed it
for the best interest of the Department to remain here long enough to
get additional information from up the coast in regard to the vessel
mentioned in the enclosed communication * before proceeding to ho de
Janeiro.
	I have the honor to be, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
WM. I{. CLARK,
Acting Master, Corn anding.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Letter from Vice-Admiral Talbot, I?. N., commanding H. B. M. ship For-
midable, to Captain Winslow, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Kear-
sarge, regarding the coaling of the latter vessel in British ports.

II.	B. M. SHIP FORMIDABLE,
Sheerness, March 13, 1864.
	SIR:	In pursuance of directions from the right honorable the lords
commissioners of the adnmiralty, and in conformity with a letter from
Fail Russell, her Majestys secretary of state for foreign affairs, I am to
signify to you that if you tal~e in coals in Margate Roads you can not
be allowed to be again supplied in the same or any other port, road-
stead, or waters subject to, the territorial jurisdiction of her Majesty,
withont special permission, until after the expiration of three months
from time time when such CO( Is may have been last supplied to the
Federal steamship under your command within British waters.
I am, sir, your most obedient servant,
CHARLES TALBOT,
Vice-Admiral, Commander in Chief.

CAPTAIN OF THE FEDERAL STEAM SLOOP KEARSARGE.




Report of Commander MeDougal, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Wyoming, of the cruise of that vessel in Chinese waters.
	-	    U. S. S. WYOMING,
		Macao [Chinal, March 13, 1864.
	SIR:	In my dispatch of February 12 from this place I informed the
Department of my intentioii of proceeding south as soon as my supplies
were omi board.
	On the 1~th I received orders from Captain Price, senior officer pres-
ent, to proceed to Foo-Chow and render all proper aid and protection in

See p. 610

Page 630

630	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

(my) your power to ~mericans and their interests at that place. In
obedience to the order, I left on the 16th and arrived at Foo-Chow on
the 26th.
	On my arrival learned the particulars of the partial destruction of the
chnrches belonging to the American and English missionary establish-
ments on the 16th January last. Prompt demands were made by both
the English and American consuls for reparation; the demand of the
former was immediately complied with, having a gunboat to back him,
but that of the American consul was met evasively.
	Git the arrival of this ship amid a request for an interview with the
authorities, the amount ($4,200) claime~1 was promptly paid. At the
interview a demand was made that the guilty parties concerned in the
riot and destruction of property should be arrested and punished, and
that in future the property of foreigners should be protected and
respected by the authorities, all of which was readily promised by the
governor.
	I would state that at the interview I was accompanied by Mr. [A. IR.]
Hewlett, the English vice-consul, amid Lieutenant Commanding [John C.]
Tncker, of the gunboat Buster [Bustarci], Mr. Clarke, our vice-consul,
and several officers of the ship. As the English chnrch had been
attacked at the same time, it was thought advisable that we should make
the demand jointly. To Mr. Hewlett my thanks were due for interpret-
lag on the occasion.
	On the 6th I left Foo-Chow and arrived here on the 10th, via Hong-
kong. I shall proceed south on the arrival of the mails.
	No further information of the Alabama has been received here since
the landing of the crew of the Emma Jane, on the 8th of January last,
on the coast of Malabar.
	The health of the officers and crew, I am happy to state, is good.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
D.	MODOUGAL,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.



Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, of the designation of the U. S. steamers Neptune and
Ualatea for convoy duty.

FLAGSHIP POWHATAN,
Cape Haitien, ]I/fttrch 16, 1864.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of the steamer Neptune,
Commander Sanford, at this port on the 9th of February, and of the
Ualatca, Commander Guest, on the 29th of the same month.
	They have been assigned to the duty of comivoying the California
steamers, alteri~ately, as the work for one ship is severe in this climate
on the firemen and coal heavers, amid repairs are often needed.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	L. LARDNER,
Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy

Page 631

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	631

Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, regarding U. S. S. Rhode Island and her commander.
FLAGSHIP POWHAAN,
Gape Haitien, March 18, 1864.
	Sin: The Rhode Island, being much in need of repairs, as shown by
with
enclosed report of Commander Trenchard,	a copy of a survey,
has been ordered to Boston.
	This ship has performed much active and useful service, and Com-
mander Trenchard has proved himself a zealous, efficient, and correct
officer.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, yours obedient servant,
J.	L. LAMDNER,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES, Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Acting Rear-Admiral Lardner, U. S. Navy, commanding West
India Squadron, regarding some needs of the squadron.
FLAGSHIP POWUATAN,
Cape Haitien, March 18, 1864.
	SIR: There will be required for this port, after April, a moderate
supply of coal, say 300 or 400 tons a month, for the use of ships
employed in convoying the California steamers. The supply at other
points of the station is supposed to be ample for a considerable tune.
	In this conr.ectiou I would ask the attention of the Bureau of Equip-
ment to an application made on the 17th of January for two lighters
ft~r this port. The numbers being barely sufficient for the commercial
wants of the place, it is sometimes diffienit to obtain their use.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
J.	L. LARDNER,
	Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES, Secretary of the Navy.


Report of Commander Preble, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. ship St.
Louis, giving additional information regarding the C. S. S. Florida.
U.	S. SLOOP QF WAR ST. LOUIS,
Santa Cruz, Teneriffe, March 18, 1864.
	Sin: Having completed the necessary repairs on our sails, I shall
leave here to-morrow on my return to Lisbon and Cadiz, touching at
Madeira and the Azores, if the winds favor me to do so.
	Herewith I forward a copy of Mr. Baymans letter to the Secretary
of State, acknowledging his appointment to act as consul at Madeira,
and asking it continued through this year for the benefit of the widow
of our late consul.
	Since my last communication I have obtained this additional infor-
mation respecting the Florida from a British army officer who was
repeatedly on board of her, viz: Her battery consists of two pivot
guns, 130-pounder rifles, and six broadside guns, all rifled. She has
the tracks laid for a third pivot gun, which, with its carriage, is on
board, unmounted, and is a very heavy rifled gun. By his description
I jndge it a Blakely gun, quite as large as our 11-inch Dahlgrens.
Morris told him he should no~ mount it at sea, but it was inten(led for
use whenever he made a demonstration in smooth water. He also told
liim he had positive orders to avoid our cruisers and not to fire a sho

Page 632

82	o?nA1lows or tan oaflIsflSuNIoN.
unless to save his ship, and added the St. Louft could do him no harm
ad he had no wish to harm heir, but would burn a ship under her
nose if he chanced to meet one. This officerwas not informed, of
course, as to the further cruising of the florida, but ems to think
she will be next heard of off New York or Philadeiphia My on
opinion Is that she and the whole rebel fleet have been preparing for a
raid on our Pacific coast
On thel5th there sailed from here, for the Rio (irande,thelronpad-
dIe-wheel steamer Fairy, of Glasgow, said tobeintended torunup and
don that river as a ferryboat. She had another name, apparently,
on her stern covered over with a board.
Judge C. ~V. Dyer U. S. commissioner to Sierra Leone [Africa], left
here in the steamer of the 14th for Cadis, on his return from the coast.
Very respectfully, your obedient servanA
	(mo. HENRY Puns
	 Hon. GiDEoN WELLEs,	, U. &#38; 
Secretary of th. NIsey, Washington, D. C.


Report of Captain Winslow, U. &#38; Navy, eornsaesdSug U. &#38; &#38; Kearsarge~
regarding the C. &#38; steaaers Georgia, FortEs, and Rappahaesnoek

U.	S. S. KEnSnGE
Of Dover, England, March *1, i&#38; w.
	Sni:	I have the honor to inform the Department that after leaving
Brest we continued for some days to cruise from point to point in hopes
of falling in with the Georgia or florida Reports everywhere reached
us that these vessels still remained in the channel. On our arrival at
Cherbourg we found several American vessels had so~wht safety in
the harbor to escape the Georgia, which cruiser was said to be lying
under Cape Barfieur. I immediately proceeded to that point, proved
the falsity of the report~ and returned to Cherbourg to give the infor-
mation.
Leaving Cherbourg for Dover reports were again brought to us that
the fioridawas off the coastof 13rance, and on ourarrival in theroads
ofEoulogne in search of her a person calling himself an agent of our
consul at London affirmed positively that in twoor three days he would
	give us information of her position. The man knew too much, and
although atelegram was received from London that be was true, I soon
satisfied them that he was a rebel spy, and the various reports had
been circulated to draw us off from watching the Rappahannoel..
The appearance of the Florid. at Madeira has set at rest all the
reports, and we are left at liberty to direct our whole attention to the

	ye to inform the Department that the season has been of unusual.
severity and we have been driven from point to point from England to
Prance 10 take shelter under any headlandthat afforded us a lee.
The mode adopted to intercept the Rappahannoe* has been at such
times at night, when the tide served (as she can only come out of the
inner harbor at Calais near high water) to lie off theport with ourlights
out, waiting her departure.
	Such, however, is the thick and foggy weather of the channel that
there is every reason to apprehend that the Rappahannoek, pursuing the
same plan as we adopt, would escape us. I have thoughtit best, there-
fore, and, at the instance of Mr. Adams and [Kr.] Morse, have hired a
mall steamer at 10 per day, which vessel secretly will keep watc

Page 633

OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.	633


upon her, follow, and signalize her departure to us. This plan, should
we be able to keep the Kearsarge supplied with coal, which the twenty-
four hour law denies to us in port, will no doub~ eventuate in her
capture.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
JNO. A. WINSLOW,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington.


I?eport of Captain Waike, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Sacramento,
of the arrival of that vessel at Bahia, Brazil, and referring to the
movements of the U. S. vessels Onward and ]ilohican.

U. S. S. SACRAMENTO,
Off Bahia, Braz~i, ]thtrch 21, 18G4.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of the Sacramento at this
port on the 14th instant, nine days from Porto Grande [Cape Verde
lslandsl.
	We passed in sight of many sailing vessels, all of which were in
appearance peaceful voyagers. We passed one steamer on this coast,
and upon close examination found her to be a Brazilian guard coaster,
two days from this port, bound for Pernand)uco.
	The U. S. shi Onward sailed from here on the 17th, destination
unknown. H~r commander informed me that the U. S. S. ]VIohiean~was
at Peruambuco, and that it was the intention of Captain Glisson to sail
for the United States in five days after he arrived there, and I regret
that I could not 5011(1 his letters to him by an English mail steamer
which sailed out of this port as we came to an anchor. The chief
engineer of this vessel required seven days to clean the boilers and
make some necessary alterations in the eccentrics of the engines while
in this port.
	I will proceed on my cruise to-day, touching at Rio [del Janeiro on
our way down. Our sick list is still unusually large, averaging from
eighteen to twenty, and our crew being short of the complement, with-
out a man to fight our four howitzers, I have reenlisted for this ship 1
seaman, 1 ordinary seaman, and 1 landsman (also 1 boy transferred)
from the Onward, whose terms of service had exl)ire(1.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
HENRY WALKE,
Captain.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C., U. S. A.


Report of Commander Prebie, U. S. Navy, eonmman4ing U. S. ship St.
Louis, of the arrival of that vessel at Lisbon, Portugal.

U.	S. SLOOP o~ WAR ST. LOUIS,
Lisbon, March 27, 1864.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of the St. Louis at this
port, seven days from Santa Cruz, Teneriffe. We were prevented
touching at Madeira and Fayal, as 1 intended, by a succession of strong
westerly and soutliwesterl~ gales, which attended us until within 200
miles of Lisbon, when they were succeeded by calms anti light airs

Page 634

334	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSUNION.

	I have also to acknowledge the receipt of a communication from the
Department directing me to revoke the appointment of Acting Masters
Mate J. H. Langley, which I have obeyed.
	After granting the crew liberty on shore, I shall leave for Cadiz to
obtain the necessary supply of provisions and stores.
	Should the ship be kept much longer on this station it will be neces-
sary to dock her, as her coppeii~ is so worn, ragged, and foul as to
impede her sailing, and unless it is repaired she will soon be worm-
eaten.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	GEO. HENRY PREBLE,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES	Commander, U. S. Navy.
Secretary of the Na~y, Washington, D. C.


Report of Commander Trenchard, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S.
Rhode Island, of the arrival of that vessel at Boston.

	U.	S. S. RHODE ISLAND,
Navy Yard, Boston, March 28, 1864.
	SIR: ITL conformity with the orders of Acting Real-Admiral Lard-
ner, commanding West India Squadron, a copy of which is herewith
aI)pended, I have the honor to report the arrival of the Rhode Island at
this port after a passage of nine days from Cape Haitien.
	The U. S. S. Glaucus arrived on the 9th instant at Cape Haitien,
having on li~ard Senor Murillo, president-elect of the United States of
Colombia, and after coaling proceeded on her destination on the 12th.
	I enclose herewith a list of officers and passengers, together with a
list of supernumeraries sent north sick from the West India Squadron,
marked 1 and 2, respectively.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
STEPHEN D. TRENCHARD,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.
LEnclosure.]

FLAGSHIP POWHATAN,
Cape Haitien, March 19, 1864.
	SIR: You will proceed with the Rhode Island, under your command,
to Boston, and upon your arrival report to the Navy 1)epartment and
to the rear-admiral commanding the station.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant, ~. L. LARDNER,

Acting Rear-Admiral, Commanding West India Squadron.
Commander STEPHEN II). TRENCHARD,
U.	S. S. Rhode Island.


Order of the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Carter, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. S. Michigan, to prepare that vess~i ~for active service
in view of a rumored raid upon some city of the Great Lakes.

NAVY DEPARTMENT, March 28, 1864.
	SIR: Major-General Halleck has communicated to the Department
a letter received from General Heintzelman, coin man ding Northern
Department, with a dispatch from the military commander at Detroit

Page 635

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.	635


in reference to a plan said to be on foot for a raid upon some lake city.
It is stated there is at iRond Ease [Rondean] an armed schooner, ~w ait-
ing for navigation to open, that is to take part in tins raid; that this
schooner is to be taken in tow by some steamer which will be seized at
Windsor by the rebels in Canada, and the two together will attempt to
carry out the design.
	General Heintzelman does not feel much apprehension on the subject,
but considers it advisable to have the steamer Michigan ready, and has
suggested that she be ordered to the upper part of Lake Erie as soon
as the ice will permit.
	In communicating this information the Department directs that you
will have the Michigan prepared for active service as soon as the ice
will permit, and it will be well for you to l)roceed to the upper part of
the lake, as General lleiatzelman suggests, to further investigate the
inattter and give any assistance that may be required.
	Very respectfully, etc.,	GIDEON WELLES,
	Secretary of Navy.
	Commander J. C. CARTER,
Commanding U. S. S. Michigan, Erie, Pa.


Report of Commander Collins, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Wachu-
sett, of the arrival of that vessel at Bahia Brazil

U.	S. STEAA SLOOP WACHUSETT,
Bahia, Brazil, March 28, 18G4.
	SIR: I have the honor to report our safe arrival yesterday at this
place, being thirty-three days from Port Royal, S. C.
	After coaling, filling up our provisions, and making some slight
repairs to the machinery, which will probably require about eight days,
I will proceed to execute your instructions of the 27th of January last.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
N.	COLLINS,
Commander.
Hon. GIDEON WELLES,
Secretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Letter from the U. S. consul at Bordeaux, Prance, to the U. S. consular
agent at Calais, announcing time presence of the C. S. S. Georgia in the
former port.
CONSULATE OF TIlE UNITi~D STATES OF AMERICA,
Bordeaux, March 28, 1864.
	DEAR SIn: Mr. Dayton writes me that the Kearsarge, United States
mait-of-war, is likely to be at the port of Calais. If so, please inform
the commander that the Confederate steamer Georgia is now lying at
this port for repairs and will likely remain here some time. This port
is 70 or 80 miles from the mouth of the river, and there will be little
trouble in the Kearsarge catching her if she comes around here. The
Georgia has five cannons(Londou make) mounted and three unmounted.
Tier commander, Lientenant W. E. Evans, went to Paris on the even-
iming of her arrival, 25th instant. Her other officers are: J. H. Ing~a-
ham, first lieutenant; C. K. King, second lieutenant; S. S. Lee, third
lieutenant; J. T. Walker, sailing Pilaster; J. N. Morgan, midshipman

Page 636

636	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSUNION.

C.	E. Hunt, masters mate; I. J. Whendan [T. J. Wheeden?J, surgeon;
li.	W. Curtis, paymaster; W. I)and [David~ guilner; with some
seventy men.
	There is one American vessel in port only going to United States;
another daily expected iu from Callao.
	The four rebel vessels building here are I)rogressing rapidly; one was
launched last week. The French Government has given assurance they
shall not go into rebel bands, but I fear the results.
	Please inform any man-of-war you cau hear of.
	Respectfully,	C. DAvISSON,
	U. S. Consul.


Report of Captain Walke, U. S. Navy, commanding U. S. S. Sacramento,
of the arrival of that vessel at Rio de Janeiro, and intended departure
for Cape Town, t?lape Colony.
U.	S. S. SACRAMENTO,
Off Rio [de] Janeiro, Br~zi~, March 29, 1861.
	SIR: I have the honor to report the arrival of the Sacramento at this
port on the 25th instant. We saw no suspicious-looking vessels on
our way.
	I have received no intelligence of any rebel cruisers south of the
equator. We are now taking in a supply of coal and provisions (being
delayed by the holidays), and I regiet that we shall l)e obliged to have
the bread baked here, as there is none in market good for ships use. I
expect to le~ave this port for Cape Town in a few days, unless I receive
information of rebel cruisers or further instructions from the Depart-
ment by the British mail.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	II. NYALKE,
	Hon. GIDEON WELLES,	.	Captain.
	   &#38; cretary of the Navy, Washington, D. C.


Letter from the Secretary of the Navy to Commander Preble, U. S. Navy,
commanding U. S. s/tip St. Louis, expressing disapproval of his course
in drawing the s/tot from his guns upon the arrival of the C. S. S.
Florida in the same port.
NAVY DEPARTMENT, March 31, 1864.
	SIR: I have received your No. 12, - dated the 1st instant, reporting
the departure of the rebel steamer Florida from Funchal. In your dis-
I)atch you state that your men were wild to fight and that you drew
the shot from your guns the day the Florida came in, fearii~g in their
excitement they would fire into her without orders and break the neu-
trality of the port.
	The Department strongly disapproves of your having taken the shot
out of your guns. Had the Florida violated the neutrality of the port
and fired into the St. Louis the honor of our flag would have been
compromised, and the act as it stands is humiliating to an officer.
Very respectfully, etc.,
	GIDEON WELLES,
	Commander GEG. H. IPREBLE,	Secretary of Navy.
6ommanding U. S. Ship St. Louis, Lisbon, Portugal.

See p. f322

Page 637

OPERATIONS OF TBE CIiU1SERSCONFEI)EI{ATE.

FROM JANUARY 1, 1863, TO MARCH 31, 186{.



(637

Page 638


Page 639

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

FROM JANUARY 1, 1863, TO MAROH 31, 1864.


Cruises of the C. S. S. Florida and tenders.

Instructions of Admiral Buchanan, C. S. Navy, commandant Mobile, Ala., to Lieutenant Maffitt,
C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, relative to running the blockade from Mobile.

NAVAL COMMANDANTS OFFICE,
Mobile, January 6, 1863.
	SIR:	It is desirable that the Florida should be painted lead color
when she runs through the blockading squadron. As you may not
have the paint on board, you can approach very near that color by
using lampblack in whitewash. A friend from Havana sent me word
that a vessel of that color can not be seen well at night; he has tried
it.	When you sail, have the Florida prepared in all respects for a
fighthammQck nettings taken down, men at quarters, etc. Exercise
caution and judgment, and escape the blockaders if possible without
using your guns, as they would give the alarm to the whole squadron
at anchor and to those cruising ofi~ the coast.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
FRANKN BUCHANAN,
Admiral, etc.
	Lieutenant Commanding JoHN N. MAFFITT,
C.	S. S. Florida, Mobile Bay.


Report of Lieutenant Maffitt, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, of the escape of that
vessel from Mobile, Ala., and arrival at Nassau, New Providence.

C.	S. S. FLORIDA,
Nassau, New Providence, January 27, 1863.
	SIR:	I have the honor to inform the Department that on the morning
of the 16th instant I ran through the blockading force, twelve in num-
ber, that were clustered around Mobile Bar to prevent the egress of
this vessel. We were not discovered until in the midst of them; an
animated chase that lasted all day then commenced. The Florida,
under a heavy press of canvas and steam, made 14.~ knots an hour, and
distanced all her pursuers except two in a few hours, and that night, by
changing the course, the two that held their way with us were eluded.
	On 19th overhauled the bark Estelle, from Santa Cruz, and bound to
Boston, loaded with honey and sugar; received the crew on board and
burned the vessel. On the night of the 20th arrived at Havana, landed
the prisoners, and on the following day coaled the vessel. At daylight
on the morning of the 22d sailed to the eastward; that day burned two
vessels, the brig Windward, from Matanzas, bound to Portland, and the
Corns Ann, of Philadelphia, bound to Matauzas.
(63

Page 640

640 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISEI~SCONFEDERATE.

	On the morning of the 23d the engineer in charge reported that the
coal received at Havana would not make steam. Ordered a general
survey on the same, which resulted in its cond~nnation. Crossed the
Bahama Banks and arrived in this port yesterday morning. Have
discharged the condemned coal, and received a good quality in its place.
Shall sail in two hours for the coast of New England. I regret to state
that while coaling the vessel last night the following men succeeded
in deserting, viz:  ______
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant
	[J. N. MAFFITT,
	Hon. S. It. MALLORY	Lieutenant, Commanding.]
Secretary of the Navy, Richmond, Va.


Report of a board of officers appointed to examine quality of coal received by the C. 8. S.
Florida at Havana, Cuba.

C.	S. S. FLORIDA,

At Sea, January 23, 1863.
	SIR: In obedience to your order, we have examined the fires in the fire
room, and from the best information in our reach we give our opinions
about the coals received in Havana. It does iiot make a lively fire.
	All the engineers, except Mr. Jackson, who has had no experience
with it, agree that they cait not carry with it a steidy head of steam of
more than~5 pounds.
	The chief engineer reports that he has in the bunkers coal received
in Mobile enough to run the vessel three days, and that it is superior
in quality to that taken on board in Havana. The speed given by the
latter during the morning watch to-day does not exceed 5 knots.
	It is our opinion that enough of the Cardiff coal should be thrown
overboard to make a gangway to the better coal; that the ship should be
run with the latter to the nearest English port where we can get coal;
that the Cardiff coal should be then discharged and better coal taken
on board.
We are, very respectfully, your obedient servants,
S. W. AYERETT,
Second Lieutenant, C. S. Navy.
J.	L. bOLE,

Second Lieutenant, C. S. Navy.
C.	W. READ,
Second Lieutenant, C. S. Navy.
S. G. STONE, Jr.,
Second Lieutenant, C. S. Navy.
Jos. I). GRAFTON,
Passed Assistant Surgeon, C. S. Navy.
F.	(IARRETSON,
Passed Assistant Surgeon, C. S. Navy.
JUNIUS J. LYNCH,
Assistant Paymaster, C. S. Navy.
JOHN SPIIDELL,
Acting First Assistant Engineer, C. S. Navy.
	Lieutenant Commanding JOHN N. MAFFJTT

Page 641

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	641
Letter from Confederate agent at Havana, Cuba, to the Secretary of State of the Confederate

States, reporting the movements of the C. S. S. Florida.

HAVANA , January 26, 1863.
	Sin: I have the honor to inform you that the Confederate gunboat
Florida arrived at this port at 8 oclock p. in. of the 20th instant, and
raui immediately into harbor that Captain Maffitt, without waiting the
visit of the health officer, with his first lieutenant, landed and caine to
my residence; that I went with them to the city, and before 12 oclock
had purchased his coal and made every arrangement, except the permit
of the captain of the port, for his takingonbo~wd everything he required;
that early the next morning I called on the captain of the port and made
such apology as I thought honorable and dignified for the two breaches
of the rules of the port, i. e., the entering the harbor after sundown and
the landing before the surgeons visit, which proved entirely satisfac-
tory, and obtained the orders for coaling the steamer. At sunset the
Florida was ready for sea, but Captain Maffitt preferred to remain until
daylight the next morning, which he did, and then went to sea. After
leaving Havana, I learn from reliable sources the Florida captured
and destroyed seven Federal vessels in forty-eight hours. It may be
proper to remark in this connection that the Federal consul-general,
Mr. Shufeldt, at 12 in. of the 21st instant dispatched a steamer for
Key West, and in the evening called on the captain-general and repre-
sented that she was a vessel of war, and asked that the Florida be
detained in the port for twenty-four hours, which order the captain-
general felt bound to give, but upon being informed that Mr. Shufeldt
had deceived 4iim in the character of the vessel he inimnediately canceled
his order and left the Florida to sail under the pernmit given by the cap-
tain of the port.
	It affords me great pleasure to add that the Spanish officials aiid
merchants behaved with their usual courtesy and good feeling for us
during the stay of the Florida.
	I have the honor to enclose herewith a dispatch for you from Mr. Sli-
deli, received open, under cover to me, on the 22d instant.
	I have the honor to be, with great respect, your obedient servant,
Cm J. HELM.
Hon. J. P. BENJAMIN,
Secretary of State, Richmond.


Letter from Lieutenant Xaffitt, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, to the governor of
Barbados, requesting permission to coed in that port.

C.	S. S. FLORIDA,
Barbados, February 21, 1863.
	Sin: Having been much injured in a recent gale of wind, and being
entirely out of coal, expended in said gale, I have been forced into this
l)ort for repairs, etc.
	Under the circumstances, I am under the necessity of asking special
permission to recoal and obtain such lumber, etc., as will enable me to
immediately depart for distant seas.
I am, most respectfully, your obedient servant
J.	N. MAFFITT,

	C.	S. Nary, Commanding C. S. S. Florida,
His Excellency JAMES WALKER, C. 13.
~	W IlVOL II 4

Page 642

642	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONPEDERATTh

Appointment by Lieutenant Maffitt, C. S. Navy, of Robert Gordon, esq., of Bridgetown,
Barbados, to be Confederate agent at that port.

To alt to whom these presents shalt come, greeting :~ Be it known:
	Whereas I, John N. Maffltt, commander of the Confederate States
steamer of war Florida, have put into the port of Bridgetown, in the
British island of Barbados, for the purpose of coaling and provisioning
my ship aforesaid, and whereas I have deemed it expedient and neces-
sary that my said Government should be duly and fitly represented at
the port aforesaid;
	Now know ye, that by virtue of the power and authority in me vested
by my said Government I do hereby nomiuate, constitute, and appoint
Robert Gordon, esq., of the city of Bridgetown aforesaid, merchant,
trading with others under the firm and style of Michael Cavan &#38; Co.,
to be agent of the Confederate States of America at the port aforesaid,
and I do hereby enjoin and command all officers of my Government,
both army and navy, and all merchant captains and others sailing
under or claiming the protection of my said Government, to recognize
tbe said Robert Gordon in that said capacity.
	In witness whereof~ I have hereunto set my hand and seal at Bridge-
town, Barbados, this 25th day of February, in the year of our Lord 1863.
[J. N. MAFFITT,

Lieutenant, C. ~. Navyj

Report of Lieutenant Maffitt, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, of the capture by that
vessel of the ship Jacob Bell.

C.	S. S. FLORIDA,
Barbados, February [26], 1863.
	SIR: When I last wrote you I was on the eve of starting for the coast
of New England. When I proceeded as far as Cape Hatteras a violent
gale of wind overtook the vessel and handled her very severely. I
was compelled to cross the Gulf Stream to get oat of it, and by this
time niy coal was so reduced that I was necessitated, reluctantly, to
relinquish my dash on the New England coast and bear up to one of
the West India Islands to supply the vessel with coal.
	On the 12th, 4 oclock p. in., captured the splendid ship Jacob Belt,
from Foo-Chow, bound to New York with a choice cargo of teas, the
value of which was over two million of dollars; this, one of the finest
	that sailed out of the port of New York~ received her crew and
vessels
passengers on board and burned the ship.
	On the [17th] put the passengers and crew on board of the Danish
brig [Miorniitg Star], bound to St. Thomas, and then made the best of
my way to this port, arriving on the morning of the [24th]. We were
received by the inhabitants with the greatest courtesy and every man-
ifestation of good will. The governor at first declined to permit me to
coal, as three months had not elapsed since I coaled in an English port.
The proclamation of neutrality does not admit the entrance of either
belligerent into an English harbor oftener titan once in three months.
However, after several interviews I succeeded in obtaining the govern-
ors consent to coal the vessel.
	When we started from Mobile the engineer in charge reported Third
Assistant Engineer [W. IL] Jackson as totally unfit for his position,
and that he had frequently, by his incapacity and negligence, endan-
gered the safety of the engine. I relieved hint from charge of a watch in
the engiue rQow~ and placed him with thQ ~m1 en~iueer, that h

Page 643

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	643

might be justructed in his profe ~siou and eventually be made of serv-
ice to the ship. This officer has again been reported as indifferent and
inattentive. His presence proving a disadvantage, 1 have given him
permission to return to the Coufederacy, stating in the said permission
the reasons for granting it. 1 shall sail for the equator at 9 oclock
this evening.
Very respectfully, yonr obedient servant,
[J. N. MAFFJTT,
Lieutenant, Commanding.]
	Hon. S. B. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy, Richmond, Va.

Instructions from Lieutenant Xaffitt, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, to Lieutenant

Averett, commanding C. S. tender Oreto (Lapwing).

[MARCH 28, 1863.]
SIR:	I send you a signal book and complement of flags.
	Latitude 00, longitude 29~ 30, rendezvous No. 1.
	The island of Fernando de Noronha, ren(lezvous No. 2.
	At a future period I will name such points of rendezvous as may be
expedient.
	As a general rule, you will keep from 6 to 8 miles apart from this ves-
sel, that our view may be more extended. Get your vessel in good sail-
ing trim and efficient as our means will admit.
	If, by any contingency, we may become separated, Ill be found at
rendezvous ~No. 1; but if forced into a port for fuel, information will be
had at rendezvous No. 2. In time you will receive more men.
I am, respectfully, etc.,
[J. N. MAFFITT,
Lieutenant, Commanding.]
	To Lieutenant Commanding AYERETT,
[C. S. Tender Oreto (Lap wing).]


Letter from Colonel Leal, commanding at the fort of Fernando de Noronha, Brazil, to Lieuten-
ant Maffitt, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, protesting against breaches of neutrality
committed in that port.

[Translation.]
QUARTERS IN THE FORT OF FERNANDO DE NORONHA,

May 1, 1863.
	I have been informed by his Excellency the president of the province,
in pursuance of an official communication from Major Sebasthio Jos6
I3asilio Pyrrho, whom I have just succeeded in the command of this
fort, that Commander Seinmes, of the steamer Alabama, of the Confed-
erate States of America, having anchored on the 10th day of April last
in the harbor of lIha Bata (Bat Island), near here, remains there in
relations with the fort, havii~g sailed out several times for the purpose
of capturing vessels belonging to the United States and having returned
to the same place after taking and bnrnimw two, viz, the ship Louisa
[Louisa Hatch] and the brig Haticory [Kate Gory]. He withdrew from
this fort on the 20th of the same month. Mr. John Maffitt, commander
of the steamer Florida, having likewise entered this harbor on the 28th
of the aforesaid mouth for the same purpose (which is abundantly proved
by the fact that the aforesaid Mr. Johim Maffitt put ashore, on the beach
of this fort, thirty-two persons who belonged to the crews of the ship

Page 644

344 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

Oneida, Jacob Bell, and &#38; Ja [ifenrietta?], after that vessel had been
bnrned), and such acts being manifest violations of the law of nations
and of the neutrality and sovereignty of a frienUy nation, which has
never allowed its territorial waters to be iriade a place of shelter and a
base of hostile operations against vessels belonging to another nation,
this commandancy energetically protests against such acts in the name
of the Government of his country, and notifies Mr. John Maffitt, com-
mander of the steamer Florida, in default of other more forcible means
of signifying his condemnation of all snch acts, to withdraw from the
territorial waters of this island and those adjacent within twenty-four
hours from the time of the official reception of this notice, this space of
time being granted to him for the sole purpose of providing himself
with snch supplies as may be indispensable to him in order to continne
on his voyage; and moreover, in the name of his Government he pro-
tests against the consequences that may result between the Confederate
States and the Empire from Mr. Maffitts disregard of this notice.
	This commandancy hopes that Commander Johii Maffitt will not
refuse to promptly conform to a notification that is based on right and
justice.
	At the expiration of the time above mentioned, if the steamer Florida
shall not have withdrawn, I shall announce that expiration by a blank
cannon shot, and after that I shall break off all relations with the com-
inander and his crew and I shall prevent him from having any coin-
mnnication with the shore as far as I am able, and I shall refuse to him
as effectively as possible any aid or comfort, and I renew, in conclusion,
the protests which are stated above with sufficient explicitness.
ANTONIO GOMES LEAL,
	Colonel Corn
	Mr. JOHN MAFFITT,	,	manding.
Commander of the Steamer Florida,
of the Confederate States of the American Union.


Letter from Lieutenant Read, C. S. Navy, to Commander Maffitt, C. S. Navy, commanding
C. S. S. Florida, proposing plans for a raid upon United States shipping in Chesapeake Bay.

C.	S. S. FLORIDA,
At Sea, May 6, 1863.
	SIR: I propose to take the brig* which we have just captured, and,
with a crew of twenty men, to proceed to hampton Roads and cut out
a gunboat or steamer of the enemy.
	As I would be in possession of the brigs papers, and as the crew
would not be large enough to excite suspicion, there can be no doubt
of my passing Fortress Monroe successfully. Once in the Roads I would
be prepared to avail myself of any circumstance which might I)resent
for gaining the deck of an enemys vessel. If it was found impossible
to board a gunboat or merchant steamer, it would be possible to fire
the shipping at Baltimore.
	If you think proper to accede to my proposal, I beg that you will
allow me to take Mr. [E. II.] Brown and one of the firemen with me.
Mr. Brown might be spared from this ship, as his health is bad, and
you could obtain another-engineer at Peruambuco.
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant, C. W. READ,

Second Lieutenant, C. S. Navy.
	[Lieutenant Commanding JOHN N. MAFFJTT.J

The brig ClqrQnoQ

Page 645

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	645

Letter from Commander Maffitt, C. S. Navy, commanding 0, S. S. Florida, to Lieutenant Read,

C.	S. Navy, approving proposed plans for raid upon United States shipping in Chesapeake Bay.

[MAY 6, 1863.]
	SIR: Your proposition of this date has been duly considered, under
such advisement as the gravity of the case demands.
	The conclusion come to is that you may meet with success by cen-
tering your views upon Hampton Roads. The Sumpter (a Cromwell
steamer) is now a kind of flagship anchored off Hampton Bar, and at
midnight might be carried by boarding. If yoa find that impracti-
cable, the large qnantity of shipping at the fort, or in Norfolk, could
be fired, arid you and crew escape to BurweiPs Bay, thence making your
way in safety to the Confederate lines.
	The proposition evinces on your part patriotic devotion to the cause
of your country, and this is certaiiily the time when all our best exer-
tions should be made to harm the common enemy and confuse them
with attacks from all unexpected quarters. I agree to your request,
and will not hamper you with instructions.
	Act for the best, and God spee(l you. If success attends the effort
you will deserve the fullest consideration of the iDepartmeut, and it will
be my pleasure to urge a just recogjiition of the same.
	Ln(ler all circumstances, you will receive from me the fullest justice
for the intent and public spirit that influences the proposal.
	I give you a howitzer and ammunition, that you may have the means
of capture if an opportunity offers en route.
Wishing you success and a fall reward for the same,
I am, yours, very truly,
[J. N. MAFFITT,
Commander, C. S. Navy.]
Lieutenant READ.

Letter from Lieutenant Maffitt, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, to the governor of
Pernambuco, Brazil, requesting anchorage in that harbor.

[C. S. S. FLORIDA, May 8, 1863.]
	SIR: Serious damage to the engine of this steamer, as well as want
of fuel, has rendered it necessary for me to enter the harbor of Per-
nam buco.
	I respectfully request the privilege of an anchorage for a few days,
until this vessel can be prepared for sea. Every exertion will be made
to render her tarry as brief as possible.
	I take the liberty of remarking that the courtesy I have above
solicited has been unhesitatingly conferred upon Confederate States
vessels in their necessities by many different nations since the com-
menceinent of this unhappy war.
I am, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[J. N. MAFFITT,
Lieutenant, Gommanding, C. S. Navy.]
His Excellency the GOVERNOR OF PERNAMBIJOG, BRAZIL.

Letter from the governor of Pernambuco, Brazil, to Lieutenant Maffitt, C. S. Navy, com
manding C. S. S. Florida, restricting to twenty-four hours the stay of that vessel in port.
[Translation. I

PALACE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF PERNAMBUCO,

Allay 8, 1863.
	I have received the communication which has just been addressed to
me, nuder date of to-day, by Mr. J N. Maffitt, commander of th

Page 646

646 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISE1~SCONFEDERATE.

steamer Florida, of the Confederate States of the American Union,
which is now on the bank of the harbor of this capital. In that com-
munication Commander J. N. Maffitt informs me that the engine of his
steamer has suffered serious damage and that he is in want of fuel,
and applies to this presidency for permissiou to anchor iu this port for
a few days, until his vessel is in a coudition to sail, and promises to
make every effort to render her stay as brief as possible. The com-
mander remarks that a similar favor has been granted to vessels of
the Confederate States in their necessities by many nations since the
commencement of the unhappy war in the United States.
	In reply, I have to inform Commander J. N. Maffitt that in the atti-
tnde which has been assumed by the Empire as a neutral nation, and
which it is proper for it to maintain, and in view of the instructions
which this presidency has received from its Government, it is not at
liberty to grant him and his vessel, or to any vessel belonging to the
other belligerent, anything in its ports beyond what is absolutely and
strictly indispensable for the continuation of his voyage, or a stay
longer than twenty-four hours for the pnrpose of procuring the same,
when he is conducting prizes, except in case of forced arrival.
	Consequently, as this condition (i. e., forced arrival) is lacking in the
case of the Florida, since, in addition to steam, she uses sails for the
purpose of navigation, and since it is known that she has on board, as
prisoners, seamen taken from vessels which she has captured ,~ nd also,
doubtless, articles that belonged to such vessels, although she is not
conducting the latter, this presidency, owing to time instructions afore-
mentioned a~ud to its Governments duty to be strictly neutral, can
only permit Commauder J. N. Maffitt to lie at anchor in the harbor of
this city for the space of twenty-four hours from the time of the recep-
tion of this communication, to receive coal and provisions during that
time, and to get the engine of his vessel repaired, all this so far as is
absolutely indispensable in order to continue his voyage, he not being
permitted to remain any longer in the aforesaid harbor.
	This presidency hopes that Commander J. N. Maffitt, respecting as
he ought the rights and sovereignty of a neutral and friendly nation,
will not oppose the slightest objection or resistance to this decision,
which is based upon justice and right. If he does so, this presidency
will be obliged, in the name of its Governmeut, to resort to such other
measures as circumstances may rendei~ advisable arid as law and justice
may authorize.
Joilo SILVEIRA DE SOUZA.
Mr. J. N. MAFFITT,
Commander of the Steamer Florida,
of the Confederate States of the American Union.


Letter from Lieutenant Xaffitt, C. 8. navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, to the governor of
Pernambuco, Brazil, protesting against the restriction to twenty-four hours in that port.

[C. S. S. FLORIDA,]
May 8, 18G3.
	SIR: Your communication of this date is at hand (5:40 p. in.), in
which you accord to me as a necessity the privile~e of coaling and
remaining in port twenty-four hours.
	It is my duty to inform your Excellency that necessary repairs to
the engine of this steamer, vital but not extensive, will require nearly
four days

Page 647

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	647

	If you insist upon my departing from hence in the time specified,
you assume the responsibility of ejecting a bled and distressed
vessel of a friendly power upon the ocean, an act that would receive
the condemnation of all civilized powers, and if I niistake not the
admirable character of your Emperor would also be ignored by him as
an improper construction of his edict of neutrality.
	If I could make the voyage to the ports of those nations who, though
equally stringent in pronouncing neutrality, yet in distress give time
and assistance, I would not again infringe upon your notice my
respectfnh but emphatic protest against this twenty-four hour rule
under present circumstances.
	The wording of the Emperors proclamation of neutrality is of such
a character as would imply authority in cases of imminent necessity
for such repairs as are of a limited and not extensive nature.
	The President of the Confederate States of America is solicitous for
the cordial consideration of Brazil, and your Excellency may rest
assured that 1 fully appreciate the sentiment and shall be governed by
the same.
[J. N. MAFFITT,
Lieutenant, Commanding, C. S. Navy.]

His Excellency the GOvERNOR OF PERNAMBUCO, BRAZIL.


Letter from the ~overnor of Pernambuco, Brazil, to Lieutenant Xaffitt, C. S. Navy, command

ing C. S. S. Florida, granting an extension of time in that port.

[Translation.]


PALACE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF PERNAMBUCO,
May 9, 1863.
	I have just received the communication addressed to me this day by
Mr. J. N. Maffitt, acknowledging the receipt of one from this presidency
bearing date of to-day, whereby the space of twenty-four hours was
granted to him to remain in this harbor for the purposes stated in his
communication. Commander J. N. Maffltt subsequently states, in his
aforesaid communication, that the repairs needed by the engine of
his vessel are of a vital character, and, require, in order to be completed,
a stay of at least twenty-four hours Ffour days]; that the insistence on
the part of this presidency on his departing hence wmthmim the time
specified involves great responsibility, viz, that of expelling from this
harbor his vessel, which has been declared unable to continue its voyage
with safety; that he protests against the enforcement of this rule in the
condition in which his aforesaid vessel is, and that if any accident or
loss should happen to it serious difficulty would arise from the refusal
of sufficient time for the necessary repairs. Commander J. N. Maffitt
adds that he considers inhuman and illiberal the manner in which this
presidency understands the proclamation of neutrality issued by its
Government.
	In reply, I have the honor to inform Commander J. N. Maffltt that it
has never been the intention of this presidency to fail to fulfill, in the
case of the commander and his vessel, the duties of humanity that are
called for by the neutrah attitude which his Government is obliged to
maintain, or to impair hi~ natural means of defense and scc~rity, or to
expose him to imminent dangers which he was previously able to avoid

Page 648

648 OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE

but simply to abstain in the aforesaid capacity as a neutral from lending
him assistance that would put him in a better condition for war than
he was before, owing to his own resources.
	However, since Commander Maftltt insists on declaring that his ves-
sel has suffered serious damage in consequence of disasters at sea which
obliged him to enter this harbor, that the repairs which it needs are
vital and important, that without them it can not continue on its voy-
age with the same safety as before, and that, in order to coniplete them,
four days at least are indispensable, this presidency, accepting those
statements as being true and made in good faith, and most positively
declaring that it is its intention as well as that of its Government to be
strictly impartial, and since, according to the instructions which have
been transmitted to it by its Government, the defrcto Government of
the Confederate States is recognized as a belligerent for such acts and
concessions as interijational law allows with them on the part of neu-
trals, it has resolved to grant to the aforesaid Commander iMlaffitt the
privilege of remaining- in this harbor the fbur days which he asks for,
said days to be reckoned from the date of the reception of the coin-
munication from this presidency which is this day addressed to him, at
the expiration of which time the Florida must leave this harbor with-
out any further notice whatever, or even soonoc, provided that the
repairs are finished in a shorter space of time.
Jo~o SILYEIRN DE Souzx.
Mr. J. N. MAFFITT,
Commander of the Steamer Florida
of the Confederate States of the American Union.


Report of Lieutenant Maffitt, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, of the cruise and captures
by that vessel from March to May, 1863.

C.	S. S. FLORIDA
Pernambuco, Brazil, May [11], 1863.
	SIR: On the 12th [6th] March, in latitude I5~ 13 N., longitude 540
38 W., captured the American ship Star of Peace, from Calcutta, bound
to Bostom, with 840 tons of saltpeter for the Federal Government,
besides other valuable cargo. Received her crew aboard and burned
the ship.
	On the [13th] captured the schooner Aldebaran, from [iNew York],
loaded with provisions, and bound to Maranliani, Brazil. Supplied the
Florida with necessities and then destroyed the schooner.
	On the 28th March captured the bark ]iapwing, loaded with coal,
tobacco, and provisions, from [Bostonj, and bound to [Batavia]. As
she seemed to be a fine vessel, I placed two howitzers on board and
ordered Lieutenant Averett to command her, furnishimig him with two
officers and eighteen men, lie was ordered to meet inc in lommgitude 30~
on the equator, for the purpose of receiving coal from me [him].
	On the [3Othj captured the bark M. J. Colcord, loaded with provisions,
from ~ew York, and bound to Cape Town. Receiving on board such
necessities as were requiyed, placed the crew on board the Dutch
[Danish] brig [Christian], and destroyed the l)rize.
	On the 114th April], in latitude [10 5.] and longitude [290 16 W.],
fell in with the Lapwing, and by the [16th] succeeded in the arduous
task of co~hing the ship at sea

Page 649

OPE~ATJONS OF THE C~UJS~HSCONFEDEflATE.

	On the 17th April captured the ship Commonwealth, bound froizn ~ew
York to San Francisco, Cal. She was a large and fine ship of some
1 30
0 tons, with a most valuable cargo on board, sixty thousand [dollars
worth] of whicli was on the account of the Federal Government.
Received from her what was reqnired on board the Florida and theu
destroyed her. On the 24th April captured the ship Oneida, from
Shanghai, and bound to New York. She had on board a valuable
cargo of choice teas, valued at $1, 000,000 in the United States.
Received on board her crew and then destroyed her.
	On the 23d April captured the bark Henrietta, of Baltimore bound
to Rio de Janeiro. Her cargo consisted of flour and other provisions.
Her passengers and crew received aboard, an(l burned the vessel.
	On the 24th placed our prisoners on board the French bark Bre-
montier, who stipulated to land thcm at Pernambuco.
	On the [28th April] anchored off the settlemncnt of the island of Fer-
nando de Noronha., communicated with the governoi, and found that
the Alabama had sailed from here three days before our arrival.
	On the 1st of May a Brazilian Goverunment steamer came in, bring-
ing a new governor for the island, the late governor having been
deposed in consequence of reported extreme courtesy on his part to
Captain Seummes, of the Alabama. On the day of the new governors
arrival he addressed me a long and somewhat absurd communication
requesting my immediate departure from the island. I sailed on the
	and on the [3d May] fell in with the Lapwiny, Lieutenant Coni-
mauding Averett, who reported the capture by him of the ship Kate
Dyer, which he bonded for ~40,000, as she had a neutral cargo on
board.
	Lieutenant Averett reported the Lapwing as leaking and totally
nnfltted for a cruiser. I detached him from the vessel, received on board
her armament, and placed Acting Master II. S. Floyd in charge, with
Midslmipman Sinclair, instructing Mr. Floyd to anchor under the Rocas,
80 miles west of Fernando de Noronha, for the purpose of receiving
fromu him his coal, which was of aim excellent quality. I then proceeded
on to this place, as it was necessary to have the facility of a machimme
shop for some important repairs.
	On the 6th of May captured the brig Clarence, frpmn Rio de Janeiro,
bound to Baltimnore with a cargo of coffee. Lieutenant C. W. Read
proposed to take the Clarence, with her cargo and papers iiitact, pro-
ceed to 1-lampton Roads, and if possible cut out a gunboat, or burn the
merchant vessels congregated at Fortress Monroe. I acceded to his
proposition, and stated my plans for appearing about the same time on
the coast of New England. At [Cape San Itoque] Lieutenant Read with
twenty men and Third Assistant Engineer E. II.] Brown separated
from the Florida.
	On the morning of the 10th [8th] arrived off this port; it was 5
oclock in the afternoon before the governor commsented to send me a
pilot, amid received me in the harbor with Cvi(lent reluctance. Omi his
attempt to restrict me to the twenty-four hour rule I made a written
protest and eventually succeeded in obtaining his permission to remain
nutil the necessary repairs to the machinery were completed. In an
interview with his Excellency 1 was very much inipressed with his
undisguised fear of the Federal Government. He informued me that
three of their cruisers would arrive in a few ~days and implored me to
leave at once, as lie could miot protect mne froum their anticipated violence.
I could miot but smile at his fears, and assured him that we did not
require his protection, but simply the courtesy amid facilities which
were due from one friendly nation to another

Page 650

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Although the United States influence is very great here, yet T think
the majority of the citizens sympathize with the Confede
goes by the regular English mail, care Fraser, T ~	racy. This
	renholm &#38; Co., Liver-
pool. All well on board.
I am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
	[J. N. MAFFITT,
	Hon. S. iR. MALLORY,	Lieutenant, Commanding.]
Secretary of the Nary, Richmond, Va.


Letter from the governor of the Island of Ceant, Brazil, to Lieutenant Maffitt, C. S. Navy,
commanding C. S. S. Florida, granting permission to take in coal for that vessel.

PALACE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF CEARL,
	June 3. 1863.
	In acknowledging the receipt of the commnuiiicatiou which has this
day been addressed to me by Mr. J. N. Maffitt, commander of the
steamer Florida, I have to inform huin that I giant the permission which
he asks merely for the purpose of taking in coal in the harbor of this
city, he to observe the legal provisions which are in force.
	God guard you.
Josi~ B. I)A CUNHA FIGUEIREDO.
Mr. J. N. MAFFITT,
Comm quder of the Steamer Florida.


Letter from the lieutenant-governor of Bermuda to Lieutenant ~affitt, C. 8. Navy, commanding

C.	S. S. Florida. regarding exchange of salutes.

[BERMUDA, July 15, 1863.]
	SIR: I shall be happy to return any salrmte that Commander Maffitt
may be desirous of or(lerillg in compliment to her Majesty the Queen.
Ten or 12 oclock to-morrow forenoon would, either of them, be coiiven-
lent hours. in fact, any hour would suit if I am informed a short time
previously.
I am, yours, obediently,
WILLIAM MUNRO.
	[Lieutenant J. N. MAFFITT, C. S. Navy,
Commanding C. S. S. Florida.]

[Endorsement.]


The only foreign salute received by the Confederate Government.

[J. N. M.]

Letter from the governor of Bermida to Lieutenant Maffitt, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S.
Florida, transmitting extracts from rules of the British Government on the subject of
neutrality.

GOVERNMENT HOUSE, MOUNT LAN~TON,
Bermuda, July 16, 1863.
	SIR: Her Majesty the Qneeu of Great Britain being fully determined
to observe the duties ot neutrality during the existing hostilities between
the United 8tates and the States calling themselves the Confederat

Page 651

OnRATIoNS OP TB! ORtJtSERSOOIIflDERATE.
651
States of America, and being, moreover, resolved to prevents far as
possible the use of her Majestys harbors, ports,~nd coasts, and the
waterswithin herNajestys territorial jurisdiction in aid of. the warlike
purposes of either belligerent I am commanded to commnnlcateforyour
information and guidance extracts from certain rules laid don by her
Majestys orders and directions, and which came into force in these
islands on the 5th day of March, 1882.
I have the honor to be, sfr, your most obedient, humble servant,
H.	ST. GEORGE On
Governor awl Commander 4. (lkiqt
	Captain MAPnTT,
Couwaand4sg U.S. &#38; .Fiorf it., St. George Harbor.

(RuoicsureUs*raste.J

	IL During the continuance of the present hostilities between the
Government of the United States of North America and the States
calling themselves the Confederate States of America, all ships of
war and privateers of either belligerent are prohibited from making
use of any port or roadstead in the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Ireland or in the Channel Islands or in any of her Majestyscolo-
ides or foreign possessions or dependencies, or of any waters subject to
the territorial jurisdiction of the British Crown, as a station or place
of resort for any warlike purpose or the purpose of obtaining anyfacili-
ties of warlike equipment; and no ship of war or privateer of either
belligerent shall hereafter be permitted to sail out of or leave auy port,
roadstead, or waters subject to British jurisdiction from which any
vessel of the other belligerent (whether the same shall be a ship of war
a privateer, or a merchant ship) shall have previously departed until
after the expiration of at least twenty-four hours from the departure of
such last-mentioned vessel beyond the territorial jurisdiction of her

	any ship of war or privateer of either belligereRt shall, after
the time when this order shall be first notified and put in force in the
United Kingdom and in the Channel Islands and in the seicral colo-
nies and foreign possessions and dependencies of her Majesty respec-
tively, enter any port, roadstead, or waters belonging to her kajesty,
.eitherintheUnited Kingdom, or In the Chmel Islands, or in any of
her Majestys colonies or foreign possessions or dependencies, such ves-
sel shall be required to depart and to put to sea within twenty-four
hours after her entrance into such port, roadstead, or waters, except in
case of stress of weather or of her requiringprovislons or things neces-
sary for the subsistence of her crew, or repairs; in either of which
cases the authorities of the port, or of the nearest port (as the case
maybe), shall require hertoput toseaas soonas possibleafter the
expiration of such period of twenty-four hours without permitting her
to take in supplies beyond what may be necessary for her immediate
use; and no suchvessel which may have been allowed to remain within
British waters forthe purpose of repair shall continueta any such port,
roadstead, or waters for a longer period than twenty-four hours after
her necessary repairs shall have been completed: Provided, neverthe-
less, that in all casesin which there shall be any vessels (whether ships
of war, privateers, or merchant ships) of.both the said belligerent par-
ties in the same port, roadatead, or waters within the territorial jude-
diction of her Majesty, there shall be an interval of not less than
twenty-four hours between the departure therefrom of any such vessel
(whether a ship of war, or erivateer, or merchant ship) of the one be

Page 652

~52 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUIS~RSGO~FEDERAT~.

ligerent and the subsequent departure therefrom of any ship of war or
privateer of the other belligerent; and the times hereby limited for
the departure of such ships of war and privateers, respectively, shall
alway s, in case of necessity, be extended so far as may be requisite for
giving effect to this 1)rovisO, but not further or otherwise.
	IV.	No ship of war or privateer of either belli~erent shall hereafter
be permitted, while in any port, roadstead, or waters subject to the
territorial jurisdiction of her Majesty, to take in any supplies except
provisions and such other things as may be requisite for the subsist-
ence of her crew; and except so nuich coal only as may be sufficient to
carry such vessel to the nearest port of her own country, or to some
nearer destination; and no coal shall be again supplied to any such
ship of war or privateer in the same or any other port, roadstead, or
waters subject to the territorial jurisdiction of her Majesty without
special permission until after the expiration of three months from the
time when such coal may have been last supplied to her within British
waters as aforesaid.
H.	ST. GEORGE Omn,
Governor and Commander in Chief.


List of articles sent from the C. S. S. Florida to the steamer Robert E. Lee.

C.	S. SLOOP OF WAR FLORIDA,
Bermuda, July 22, 18(53.
	SIR:	In accordance with your order the following articles from the
masters department have been sent aboard tIme steamer Robert F.
Lee, viz:
21 chronometers.	8 barometers.
14 quadrants.	S spyglasses.
4 sextants.	4 bags of charts.
15 lamps.	2 bags of flags and signals.
25 compasses (in boxes).	3 thermometers.

Respectfully, your obedient servant, GEORGE D. BRYAN,

Acting Master.
	Lieutenant Commanding J. N. MAFFITT, C. S. Navy.



Report of Lieutenant Maffitt, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, of cruise and captures
by that vessel from May to July, 1863.

C.	S. S. FLORIDA,
Bermuda [July 27], 1863.
	SIR:	On the 12th [of May~ I sailed from Pernambuco, and on the
13th May captured the fine ship Crown Point, from New York, bound
to San Francisco, Cal. She had a very valuable assorted cargo on
board. Received her passengers and crew and burned the ship. I
then proceeded on to the Rocas, anticipating to meet the Iiapuing;
remaitted there fifteen days.
	On May 25 John Saddler, landsman, was drowned in crossing the bar.
On the 29th the first lieutenant of this vessel went ashore with
several officers for the purpose of bathing, and in crossing the bar the
boat was upset, and I regret to say Assistant Surgeon J. D. Grafton
lost his life. It is reported that one of the men by his side who coul

Page 653

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	353

not swim asked for the oar which was sustaining him; he generously
surrendered it, and thereby lost his life. Dr. Grafton was a high-toned
oflicer, a gentleman of irreproachable character, and his loss is deeply
deplored.
	On [May 18 John] Johnson, seaman, died of bilious fever. We buried
him on IRocas Island. Having come to the conclusion that the Lapwin~q
had either been captured or was unable to make the island, I proceeded
to Ceard and Plled up with coal, starting from thence eastward.
	Ou the 6th June captured the &#38; uthern Cros~, a ship of 1,000 tons,
loaded with logwood. She was from the west coast of Mexico, bound
to New York. Received aboard the Florida her crew and passengers,
and then burned her.
	On the 14th June captured the ship Red Gauntlet, of Boston, and
bound to Hongkong. She had a cargo of ice, coal, musical instru-
ments, etc., aboard. Kept her in company for many days for the pur-
pose of receiving her coal.
	On the 16th captured the B. P. Bioxie, a large ship from the west
coast of Mexico, reputed to be bound to Falniouth, England. Her
cargo consisted of logwood and $105,000 in silver bars. The captain
claimed this as a neutral cargo, but as her clearance was very irregular,
her destination not positive with the crew, I could not l)ermit her to
pass without capture. The silver bars, officers, and crew I received on
board an d burned the vessel.
	On the 27th June captured the whaling schooner V. H. Hill, of Provi-
dence, Mass. [R. I.]. Bonded her for $10,000; placed our prisoners on
board of her, with a promise from the captain that he would land them
at this port.
	On the 7th July captured the packet ship Sunrise, from New York,
bound to Liverpool. She had a neutral cargo on board and a great
number of passengers; bonded her for $60,000.
	On the 8th July, at 12 in., sighted a Federal side-wheel man-of-war;
she had four funnels, and was presumed to be the U. S. S. Ericsson.
She had a large crew on board, and was evidently on a cruise for Con-
federate vessels. We went to quarters, furled sails, and endeavored to
get up a good head of steam, but the indifthrent quality of coal we had
received from the Red Gauntlet, of which our fires were then made,
frustrated all our efforts. As soon as the Federal steamer got within
range of our guns we opened upon him with our starboard broadside,
and evidently struck him, as he at once changed his course from us,
without firing a gun. His superior speed and the setting in of a dense
fog enabled him to escape.
	By New York papers, which we received from the ship Sunrise, I
became aware of the fact that Lieutenant Read had for some cause
deflected from his original instructions and proceeded with the (liar-
enee to the coast of New England, aud that his great success had
caused the Federal Governmeut to send out quite a number of cruisers
in search of this vessel. Having but a small quantity of good coal on
board, I did not deem it expedient to risk the vessel in the raid 1 had
anticipated. We were now within 50 miles of New York; their cruisers
lined the whole coast, and it was with extreme reluctance that I felt it
obligatory on me to leave that part of the ocean. At 8 oclock p. m.
captured the brig W. B. Nash, bound from New York to
Received the officers and crew on board and burned her. At hour
captured the whaling schooner Rienzi, from Provincetown, with a cargo
of oil. Her crew had just deserted her, having witnessed the destruc-
tion of the brig W. 13. Nash

Page 654

354 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Ou the 13th [July], after a brief illness, Assistant Paymaster Lynch
died of consumption. He was a zealous officer, respected and esteemed
by all on board. I brought his remains to this p~rt, an(l on the
buried huin in the Episcopal graveyard. After quarantine of twenty-
four hours we were permitte(I to enter the harbor of St. George. The
vessel requiring calking, workmen were at once engaged for that pur-
pose, but there was no coal to be had in the place, and all my efforts to
obtain Government coal proved ineffectual.
	Having learned from the military commandant that a salute would
be returned, gun for gun, on the morning of the 16th I fired one of 21
guns, which was responded to by one of like number from the fort.
We have experienced every degree of courtesy and consideration dur-
ing our sojourn in this place.
	By the arrival of the Harriet Pinekney I was enabled on the [26th]
to coal,the vessel. By the Robert Lee I send in nautical instruments,
charts, and flags; also a quantity of tea and coffee as a donation from
the crew of this vessel to the hospitals in Richmond.
	I shall sail in a few hours.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
	[J. N. MAFFJTT,
	Hon. [S. R. MALLORY,	Lieutenant, Commanding.]
Secretary of the Navy.]

	P. S.I have appointed Mr. John R. Davis, clerk from the office
of Major Walker, acting assistant paymaster, and the accounts of the
late Payma~ster Lynch, up to the end of the last quarter, have been
deposited with Major Walker for safe-keeping.


Report of Lieutenant Read, C. S. Navy, of cruise in command of the C. S. tenders Clarence,

Tacony, and Archer.

FORT WARREN,
Boston Harbor, July 30, 1863.
	SIR: On the 6th of May last I was detached from the C. S. S. Florida
by Commander Maffitt aimd ordered to take command of the prize
brig Clarence, and to proceed on an exl)edition. I received from the
Florida one howitzer and twenty mcmi, including an engineer.
	On the 10th of June, when off Cape Hatteras, I received such im~for-
mation as convinced me that it was impossible to carry out the instruc-
tions of Commnander Mafhtt.
	On the 12th of June I captured the Yankee bark Tacony, and as she
was a much better vessel th n the Clarence, I transferred everything
to thiefornier and burned the latter vessel.
	Between the 12th amid the 24th of June I burned and bonded nine-
teen sail.
	On the morning of the 25th of June I burned the Tacony and trans-
ferred everything to the prize schooner Archer.
	On the 26th, at sunset, I anchored in the harbor of Portland, Me.,
amid at 1:30 the following utorning boarded and captured the U. S.
revenue cutter Caleb Cushing. Day dawned before the cutter could be
got out of range of the forts, and I was in consequence hindered from
firing the shipping in the harbor. At 11 a. in., when a bout twenty
miles east of Portland light, we were attacked by two large steamers
and three tugs. After expending~ all our ammunition, I blew up the
cutter and surremidered in the small boats. I will report to you more
fully when I return to the Confederacy

Page 655

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	655

	As all of our clothing was distributed as. relics to the people of Port-
land, I beg that you will, if possible, remit to Assistant Paymaster
Nixon a sufficient sum of money to purchase ~y men a change of
clothing.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
CHAS. W. IREAD,
Second Lieutenant, C. S. Navy.
	Hon. S. F. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy, Richmond, Va.
[Endorsement.]

[U. S. S.] IIETZEL, NEW BERNE, ~. C.,
August 18, 1863.
	Copy of Lieutenant Reads report to Mr. Mallory sent from Fort
Warren to General Foster, and by him communicated to me.
	Respectfully submitted for the information of the Navy Department.
S.	P. LEE,
Acting Rear.Admirat [U. S. Navy.]


Additional report of Lieutenant Read, C. S. Navy, of his cruise in the C. S. tenders Clarence,
Tacony, and Archer, and the capture of U. S. revenue cutter Caleb Gushing in Portland
Harbor, Me.

llIcrn4oNn, VA., October 19, 1864.
	SIR: On ~the 6th of May, 1563, I was detached from the C. S. S.
Florida, then off Cape St. [San] iRoque, and ordered to take command
of the prize brig Clarence.
	r~nclosed you will find my proposition to and letter of instructions
from Commander Maffitt.*
	lit obedience to orders I shaped my coarse for the capes of the
Chesapeake. Off the Windward islands I chased several vessels, but
failed to overhaul them on account of the inferior sailing qualities of
the Clarence.
	On the 6th of June, in latitude 330 39, lougitude 710 29 W., fell in
with, captured, and burned the bark Winduard4 from Philadelphia to
New Orleans, loaded with coal. She was insured by the U. S. Govern-
ment for the sum of ~14,8OO.
	On the 7th of June captured the schooner Alfred lii. Partridge, from
New York to Matamoras. She was loaded with arms and clothing for
our citizens in Texas. I took the captains l)ond for the sum of $5,000
for the delivery of the cargo to loyal citizens of the Confederate
States.
	On- June 9, in latitude 330 52 N., longitude 740 6 W., captured and
burned the brig Mary Altina, front Boston to New Orleans, loaded with
conimissary stoics.
	From the prisoners and papers of transports Windwardf and ]Jliary
A leina I derived such information as convinced me that it was iinpos-
sible to carry out the instructions of Commander Maffitt. No vessels
were allowed to go into hampton Roads unless they had supplies for
the U. S. Government, and then they were closely watched. The ves-
sels lying at the wharf above Fortress Monroe were guarded by a gun-
boat, and there were sentries on the wharf. Just outside the fort there
were two boarding steamers. I then determined to cruise along the
	-~ For enclo sores see pp. 644, 64~,	t Whistling Wind

Page 656

656 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

coast and try to intercept a transport for Fortress Monroe and with her
to endeavor to carry out the orders of Commander Maffitt, and in the
meantime to do all possible injury to the enemys ~omnierce.
	On the morning of the 12th of June, latitude 370 N., longitude 750
30 W., captured the bark Tacony, in ballast, from Port Royal, S. C., to
Philadelphia. As soon as we had possession of her, a schooner was
discovered whicli we stood to intercept. At S a. in. we brought to the
schooner. She proved to be the schooner AL A. ~ ballast,
from Port Royal, S. C., to Philadelphia. The bark Tacony being a better
sailer thaii the Clarence, I determined to burn the latter vessel and
take the bark. While the howitzer, etc., was being traiisferred from
the Clarence to the Tacony, a schooner was discovered coining down
before the wind. Passing near the Clarence, a wooden gun was poiiited
at her, and she was commanded to heave to, which she did immediately.
She was found to be the schooner Kate Stewart, from Key West to
Philadelphia, in ballast. As we were now rather short of provisions
and had over fifty prisoners, I determined to bond the schooner Kate
Stewart aud make a cartel of her. I bonded her for the sum of $7,000,
payable to the President of the Confederate States thirty days after
the ratification of a treaty of peace between the Confederate States
and United States. The brig Clarence and schooner Shindler were theu
set on fire. We now stood in chase of a brig, which we soon over-
hauled. She proved to be the brig Arabella, of New York, from
Aspinwall to New York, with a neutral cai go. I bonded her for
$30,000, payable thirty days after peace.
	On June 15, latitude 370 40 N., ]ongitude 700 31 W., captured and
burned time brig Umpire, from Cardenas to Boston, loaded within sugar
and molasses.
	June 20, latitude 400 50 N., longitude 690 20 [W.], captured the ship
I8aac lVebb, from Liverpool to New York, with 75() passengers. Not
being able to dispose of the passengers, I bonded her for $40,000. On
the saute day burned the fishing schooner Micawber.
	On Juite 21, latitude JO N., longitude (590 10 XV., captured and
burned the clipper ship Byzantiam, froum London to New York, loaded
with coal. On the same day burned the bark (Jood~peed, from Loudomin-
derry to New York, imi ballast.
	On June 22 captured the fishing schooners Marengo, Florence, B. Ann,
P. Choate, and Ripple. The Florence being amm old vessel I bonded her
and l)laced seventy-five prisoners on her. The otlmer schooners were
burned.
	On June 23 captured and burned the fishing schooners Ada and
Wanderer.
	Oim June 24, latitude 430 10 N., loll gitude (570 43 W., captured the
ship Shatemnne, from Liverpool to Boston, with a large number of emi-
grants. I bonded her for ~i50, 000. On the night of June 24 captured
the fishiming schooner Archer.
	As there were now a number of the enemys gunboats imi search of the
Tacony, ani our howitzer ainmunminition being all expended, I concluded
to destroy the Tacony, and with thine schooner Archer to procee(1 along
the coast with the view of burnimig the shipping in some exposed har-
bor, or of cutting out a Keamer. Accordingly, on the niornimig of the
25th of June, we set fire to the Tacony, amind with the Archer stood in
for the coast.
	On the morning of the 26th of Jnne we made Portland light. Off
Portland I picked np two fishermen, who, taking ns for a pleasure
party, willingly consented to pilot ns into Portland. From the fisher-
~nen I learned that tT~e revenue cutter Caleb Cushing was iu the harbo

Page 657

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	657

of Portland, and the passenger steamer to New Yorka stanch, swift
l)ropellerwould remain in Portland during the night. I at once deter-
mined to enter the harbor, and at night to quietly %seize the cutter and
steamer.
	At sunset we entered the harbor and anchored in fall view of the
shipping. I explained to my officers what I expected to do after dark.
My engineer, Mr. Brown, expressed his doubts as to his ability to start
the engines of the steamer proposed to be captured without the assist
ance of another engineer. I felt confident that Mr. Brown would do his
utmost to perform the duty required of him, bnt as the nights were
very short it was evident that if we failed to get the steamer underway,
after waiting to get up steam, we could not get clear of the forts before
we were discovered. As the wind was blowing moderately out of the
harbor, I then decided to capture the cutter, and after getting from
under the forts to return and tire the shipping.
	At 1:30 a. in. we boarded the cutter Caleb Gushing and cal)tured her,
without noise or resistance. As the cable could not be slipped, it was
2 oclock before we got underway. The wind was now very light, the
tide was running in, and before we could get from under the guns of
the forts day dawned.
	At 10 a. in., when about 20 miles off the harbor, two large steamers
and three tugs were discovered coming out of Portland. The cutter
was cleared for action, and as soon as the leading steamer was iu range
we opeiied fire upon her. After firing five rounds from the pivot gun
I was mortified to find that all prqjectiles for that gun were expended.
From the movements of the enemys steamers it was evident that they
intended to attack us simultaneously on each side and endeavor to
clear our deck with their sharpshooters. It was plain that we could
offer but an ineffectual resistance, and therefore I directed the cutter
to be set on fire and the crew to take to the boats. At 11:30 I sur-
rendered myself and crew to the steamer Forest City. At 12 oclock
the cutter blew up.
	1 have to express my entire approbation of the conduct of all under
my command. After parting company with the Florida I gave the three
petty officersBillups, Pryde, and Mathersom iappointments as mas-
ters mates, subject to your approval. They are good seamen, brave and
patrioti~ men.
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	W. READ,
Second Lieutenant, C. S. Navy.
	Hon. S. H. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy, Richmond, Va.


Instructions of the Secretary of the Navy of the Confederate States to Lieutenant Xaffitt,
C.	S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, regarding correspondence with the Department,
and transmitting his appointment as a commander.

CONFEDERATE STATES OF A~IERICA,
Yavy Department, Richmond, August 7, 1863.
	SIR: Your letter of the 21st of July, dated at Bermuda, with two
enclosures, has been received, and is the only letter received from you
since you left the Confederate States.
	You are requested to send duplicates of all dispatches and reports
from yourself to the Department as early as practicable, through our
agents at Bermuda, Nassau, or Ilavana, or by any safe opportunity
tliat you mimay meet with.
	N W RVOL II	4

Page 658

658 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	From the newspapers I learn that Assistant Paymaster Lynch died
on board the Florida and that Passed Assistant Snrgeou Grafton was
drowned. You are requested to report the particulars in each case.
	The enclostires above referred to are a list of nautical instruments,
charts, etc., sent to Wilmington by the R. B. Lee, and the receipt of
Mr. I. T. Bourne for 4,988k pounds of silver. I presume your reports
have stated the particulars of the last-named transaction. Should
you at any time find it necessary to deposit captured funds to the
credit of the Government, you will please place them with Fraser,
Trenholm &#38; Co., Liverpool.
	Herewith you will receive your appointment as commander in the
Navy. A copy of it was sent to you in May last to Nassau. This
appointment was made upon the recommendation of the Department
by the President, and the reasons for the promotion are stated in the
appointment.
	I congratulate you and the officers and men under your command
upon the brilliant success of your cruise, and I take occasion to express
the entire confidence of the Department that all that the skill, cour-
age, and coolness of a seaman can accomplish with the means at your
command will be achieved.
	If you can make the arrangements to receive them, I would send
you additional officers to enable you to fit out prizes as cruisers.
Yery respectfully, your obedient servant,
S.	Ii. MALLORY,
Secretary Navy.
Commander~ JOHN N. MAFFITT, C. S. Navy,
Commanding C. S. S. Florida.
[Enclosure.l

CONFEDERATE STATES OF AMERICA,
Nary Department, Richmond, May 6, 1863.
	SIR: You are hereby informed that the President has appointed you,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, a commander in the
Navy of the Confederate States, to rank from the 29th day of April,
1863, for gallant and meritorious conduct in command of the steam
sloop Florida in running the blockade in and out of the port of Mobile
against an overwhelming force of the enemy and under his fire, and
since in actively cruising against and destroying the enemys com-
merce.
	Should you accept the appointment, you will notify this Department
thereof.
S.	R. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy.
	Commauder JOHN N. MAFFITT, C. S. Navy,
Commanding Steam Sloop Florida.
	Registered No. 28. The lowest number takes rank.



Letter from Lieutenant Maffitt, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, to Hon. John Slidell,
C. S. commissioner at Paris, regarding necessary repairs to that vessel.

C.	S. S. FLORIDA,
English Channel, August 18, 1863.
	SIR: I am nuder the necessity of entering a friendly harbor for the
purpose of making importammt repairs on both engines and hull of this
vessel

Page 659

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS-CONFEDERATE.	659

	Having coaled on the 20th nitimo in an English port, I can not, by
the Queens proclamation of i~eutrality, agaiii enter one of her harbors
until the 26th of October next. It thus renders ft obligatory to enter
a French port, and I have selected Brest as the most favorable in all
respects for the vital repairs that are required on this steamer.
	My chief engineer thinks that eighteen days will complete all that is
necessary, and I respectfully request your interest in obtaining time,
as well as facilities, in the harbor of Brest.
	The Florida has thus far been put to her fullest capacity, and that,
too, without opportunity for such necessary repairs as are constantly
required on board of a steamer.
	Lieutenant S. W. Averett, of this vessel, will l)resent this and more
fully state the absolute necessity that exists for immediate repairs.
I am, respectfully, your ol)edient servant,
[J. N. MAFFITT,J
Commanding C. ~. ~. Florida.
Hon. J. SLIDELL,
C.	~ Commissioner, Paris.


Letter from Lieutenant Maffitt, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, to the admiral
commanding at Brest, France, requesting permission to dock his vessel.

C.	S. S. FLORIDA,
Brest, August [23], 1863.
	SIR: In consequence of serious injury to the engine and hull of this
vessel, I am under the necessity of entering the harbor of Brest and
soliciting facility for repairing the defects that prevent my remaining
at sea.
	The condition of this steamers valves and shaft renders it necessary
that she should be docked, and I have to request the courtesy of the
French Government in my present emergency.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
[J. N. MAFFITT,
Lieutenant, Commanding.]
ADMIRAL COMMANDING THI~ STATION AT BREST.


Report of Lieutenant Matfitt, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, of cruise and captures

by that vessel from July to September, 1863.

BREST, FRANCE, September , 1863.
	SIR On the [27th July] I sailed from the island of Bermuda,and on
the [22d August], in latitude ,longitude ,captured the packet
ship [Southern Rights], loaded with 400 emigrants and bound to the
city of New York. As I had no means of disposing of her passengers
I bonded her for $40,000. For the last two months the engineers of
this vessel have constantly been reporting to me the necessity or pro
ceeding to sonic port for the purpose of having the machinery over-
hauled and repaired. The shaft is ont of line, the delivery valves in
bad condition, and other defects existing which determined me to pro-
ceed to this port for the purpose of remedying the various defects that
were reported.
	Oim the	I entered the English Channel, and the night [of August
17] landed the executive officer at Cork to proceed to Paris and coin

Page 660

660 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

municate to Mr. Slidell that he might make application to the French
Government for our admittance into the national dock at Brest.
	On the [21st August 1,111 latitude , longitud~ , caDtnred the
ship Anglo Saxon, with a cargo of coal, bound to New York. Received
on board the officers and crew, and burned the vessel.
	On the afternoon of the [23d Angust] arrived iu this harbor. We
were placed in quarantine until [24th August].
	On	I called npou the admiral commanding and was received
by him with the greatest courtesy. He informed me that he was daily
in anticipation of receiving instructions to dock the Florida. I regret
to inform the Department that in con sequence of impaired health I
shall be under the necessity of applying for a detachment from this
vessel.
Respectfully, your obedient servant,
	[J. N. MAFFITT,
	Hon. SECRETARY OF NAVY.	Lieutenant, Commanding.]


Letter from Commander Kaury, C. S. Navy, to Commander lVlaffitt, C. S. Navy, commanding
C. S. S. Florida, in response to request from the latter to be relieved from duty on account
of sickness.

HOTEL IJE LAJIIRAUT, RUE NEUVE ST. AUGUSTIN,

Paris, September 9, 1863.
	SIR:	I have received your letter of the 5th instant, enclosing the
surgeons ce~tiflcate with regard to your health, and asking to be
relieved from the command of the Florida on that score.
	I am grieved to learn that your health has given away under the
severe trial it has undergone in the Florida, and I am sure our country-
men will also learn with regret that they have to lose, even for a tune,
the services of an officer who has done so much to spread the fame of
their flag over the seas. Let us hope that your health may be speedily
restored.
	An officer will be sent as early as practicable to relieve you. In the
meantime I would be glad to know your wishes as to the length of
your leave to remain in Europe, or as to orders for returning home.
Respectfully, etc.,
	M. F. MAURY,
	Commander ,~. N. MAFFITT,	Commander, C. S. Navy.
Rue des Provinces.


Letter from Commander Naury, C. S. Navy, to Commander Xaffitt, C. S. Navy, commanding
C.	S. S. Florida, detaching him from the command of that vessel.

PARIS, September 11, 1863.
	(Received September 17.)
	SIR:	Commander J. N. Barney has been ordered to relieve you. He
will deliver this communication to you, upon the [receipt of] which you
will turn over the command of the Florida to him. Consider yourself
detached from her, and as soon as the state of your health will allow,
you will repair to the Confederate States and report yourself to the
Secretary of the Navy.
	Be pleased to confer freely with Commander Barney as to your unex-
ecuted plans; give him copies of all the orders and instructions of the
Navy Department relating to the cruising of the Florida or the servic

Page 661

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	661

upon which you have been engaged in her. Also make him acquainted,
if you please, with the condition of the vessel and the arrangements
for her repairs, etc.
Respectfully,
[MAURY.]
	Commander J. N. MAFFITT,
C. &#38; S. Florida, Brest.
Reported June 8, 1864.
[Endorsement.]

S.	R. MALLORY,
Secretary.

Petition from petty officers and seamen of the C. S. S. Florida to Commander Maffitt, C. S. Navy,

requesting to be transferred with him from that vessel.

BREST, September 16, 1863.
	SIR: We having heard that you are about to leave us to take com-
mand of another Confederate States vessel, and having received so
much kindness and cotisideration from you, most respectfully desire to
be transferred to the vessel you are to command.
	Hoping, sir, that you will not consider our writing to you any breach
of discipline, but as a desire to be again under your command, sir, we
are,
Very respectfully, your most obedient servants,
	W~. BOYNTON,	WM. WILSON,
Coxswain.
JOHN Ross,
Quartermaster.

W~i. STIARKEY,
WM. PATTEN,
Seaman.
THOS. F. BROWN,
Seaman.
Tubs. KEHOE,

Quartermaster.
Seaman.
Seaman.
JAMES MCDONALD,
Seaman.
JOHN MCDONALD,
seaman.
JAMES HAWTHORN,
Seaman.
WM. COVEL,
Quartermaster.
JOHN HOGAN,
Fireman.
MATT. WOODS,
Fireman.
JAMES HEWETT,
Ordinary Seaman.
Captain MAFFITT.


Order of Flag-Officer Barron, C. S. Navy, to Commander Barney, C. S. Navy, commanding
C. S. S. Florida, relieving him from command of that vessel.
PARIS, January 5, 1864.
	SIR:	In consequence of your application, under an advisory certifi-
cate of ill health from Surgeon Charlton, C. S. Navy~ to be relieved
floin the command of the steamer Florida, you are hereby detached,
and after turning over the vessel to Lieutenant Commanding C. M.
Morris, who has been ordered as your successor, you will report to me
in person in this city for other duty.
Respectfully, etc.,
Commander J. N. BARNEY,
C.	S. S. Florida, Drest, France.
S.	BARRON,
Flag- Officer

Page 662

6(32 OPIM~AttO~ OF VilE ORUISE1~S~CONFEDEUArVE.

Order of Flag-Officer Barron, C. S. Navy, to Lieutenant Morris, C. S. Navy, to assume command
of the C. S. S. Florida.

PARIS, January 5, 1864.
	SIR: Proceed to Brest and assume comman(l of the C. S. S. Florida
when Commander Barney shall be ready to transfer the command
to you.
iRespeetfully, etc.,
S.	BARRON,
Flag- Officer.
	Lieutenant Commanding C. M. MORRIS, C. S. Navy,
Paris.

Instructions from Flag-Officer Barron, C. S. Navy, to Lieutenant Morris, C. S. Navy, command-
ing C. S. S. Florida, regarding tht~ cruise of that vessel.

PARIS, January 25, 1864.
	SIR: When the Florida~, now under your command, is ready for sea
you will sail on a cruise against the enemys commerce.
	Your position is an important one, not only with reference to the
immediate results to the enemys property, but from the fact that neu-
tral rights may frequently arise under it. iLleliance, however, is l)laced
in your judgment and discretion for meeting and promptly disposing of
such questions.
	Since the sailing of the ASurnter on her very successful cruise Federal
owners of ships and cargoes have adopted the practice of placing them
under British protection, and this may at times cause you embarrass-
inent. The strictest regard for the rights of neutrals can not be too
sedulously observed, nor should any opportnnity be lost in cultivating
friendly relations with their naval an(l merchant services afl(i of plac-
ing the true character of the contest in which we are engaged iu its
proper light.
	It is not deemed advisable to too rigidly prescribe your cruising
ground. You are recommended, however, to cover a large field of
action, beginning on the equator between longitudes 180 and 280, to
intercept the vessels that may be on the return from California and the
East Indies.
	About the 1st April make for the noi~thern coasts of the Confederacy,
say in the neighborhood of Cape Hatteras, where you will most likely
fall in with transport vessels carrying supplies of provisions, men, and
munitions to their stations iii North an(l South Carolina.
	Having made your mark in this region, it will be well, if circum-
stances permit, to make a dash on the New England coast, taking care
not to be caught too near the enemys coast in a short allowance of
fuel.
	You will not hesitate to assume responsibility when the interests of
your country may demand it; and should your judgment ever hesitate
in seeking the solution of any difficulty, it may be aided by the reflec-
tion that you are to (10 the enemys property the greatest injury in the
shortest time. Authority is vested in you to make acting appoint-
ments to fill any vacancies which may occur. You will communicate
with your Government as frequently as possible through any safe chan-
nel that may offer, always taking care to use the cipher agreed upon in
any word that might betray what you desire to conceal

Page 663

	OPERATiONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	663

	The maintenance of strict naval discipline will bc essential to your
success, and you will enjoin this upon your officers and enforce its
rigid observance, always tempering justice with humane and kind
treatment.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
S.	BARRON,
Flag- Officer.
	Lieutenant Commanding CHARLES M. MORRIS,
C.	S. S. Florida, Brest, France.


Report of Lieutenant Morris, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, regarding needed repairs
for that vessel.

C.	S. S. FLORIDA,
Brest, January 31,1864.
	SIR: Enclosed I forward you two reports from Mr. C. W. Quinn,
chief engineer of this vessel. The first, dated 27th instant, I had
intended and hoped to send you with my report this evening, stating I
had made all arrangements to leave here at once, or as soon as Captain
Barneys friends in Paris could telegraph.
	The second report of Mr. Quinn, which I enclose, I have only received
to-day, and will not be able to learn whether it can be repaired here
until to-morrow at 11 a. in., as Mr. Aumnaitre will not be able to see the
admiral until that time. I will report again to-morrow, as it will be
necessary P5 have the work done either in Nantes, llavre, or Liverpool,
if the admiral will not allow it to be done here.
I am, sir, respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	MkNIGAULT MORRIS.
Flag-Officer SAMUEL BARRON.



Report of Lieutenant Morris, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, regarding that vessel.

C.	S. S. FLORIDA,
Brest, February 1, 1864.
	SIR: I have to report that the admiral has con sented to have the
junk ring of the engine made at the arsenal of this port, but it will not
be finished until Saturday evening. After that time Ihope to be ready
for sea. I forwarded you a report yesterday in relation to it.
I am, sir, respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	MANIGAULT MORRIS,

Lieutenant, Commanding, C. S. Navy.
	Flag-Officer SAMUEL BARRON, C. S. Navy,
Paris.


Report of Lieutenant Morris, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, announcing the readi-
ness of that vessel for immediate departure from Brest, France.

C.	S. S. FLORIDA,
Brest, February 9, 1864.
	SIR: I enclose you copies of two (locuments received from the admi-
ral commanding this station yesterday afternoon. The junk ring cam

Page 664

(364 OPEI~ATIONS OF THI~ CRuISERSgONFtt)ERAt1~.

on board this morning, also the broken one repaired. As I have all as
ready as I can get them, I intend getting underway to-night and pro-
ceeding to sea. I will forward you a list of my crew and officers by the
pilot, as I have a number of servants on board that only join after we
get outside.
	On the receipt of my muster roll you will perceive from the number
of my crew that I can not man all of my gulls, and will go to sea with
one of niy 7-inch pivot guns without a crew. I propose having one
pivoted on either side and working them as broadside guns, with one
crew for both guns. The pivot guns on the present carriages are next
to nseless, and not as efficient as the broadside guns.
	I have to acknowledge the receipt of your letter forwarding me the
circular in relation to the examination of midshipnmen, and will forward
you the report of the board of examiners after their sitting, which has
not yet takemi place, as the gentlemen require some short time to revise
their studies. I also have to acknowledge the receipt of my sailing
orders.
I am, sir, respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. M. MORRIS,
Lieutenant, Commanding.
Flag-Officer SAMUEL BARRON, C. S. Navy,
Paris.


Additional report of Lieutenant Morris, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, regarding the
departure of that vessel from Brest, France.

C.	S. S. FLORIDA,
Brest, February 9, 186411 p. m.
	SIR: As I wrote you to.day, I have received a very strong intimation
from the admiral of the port to leave twenty-four hours after my repairs
are finished, and as all was completed at 10 this morning my time is up
at 10 in the morning. Uimder the circumstances it is of the greatest
importance that I should leave before daylight. I have telegraphed to
Mr. L. E. iReisserton at N. [Nantes ~i] twice, but have received no
answer. I will sail to-night and make the rendezvous with him
to-morrow week, the 17th of February. Will you have all of the nec-
essary arrangements made for the meeting~ Should I be detained
from stress of weather 1 will be there as soon after as possible. All
signals are to remain as at present.
I am, sir, respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. M. MORRIs,
Lieutenant, Commanding.
~Flag-Officer SAMUEL BARRON, C. S. Navy,
Paris.


Report of Lieutenant Morris, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, of the cruise of that
vessel from February 10 to 19, 1864.

C.	S. S. FLORIDA,
At Sea, February 18, 1864.
	SIR:	I have the honor to report my arrival at the appointed rendez-
vous. I shonld have been here last night, but was prevemmted by au
accident to the after boiler. It appears that one of tile firemen o

Page 665

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	665

watch on the morning of the 16th opene(l the lower blow cock, and
then went on deck and forgot to return. Fortunately, Mr. Quinn, chief
engineer, entered the fire room shortly afterwar~s and discovered it
barely in time to prevent injury to the boiler. The arch of the star-
board furnace is bulged out nearly 3 inches, and twenty-six of the ends
of the tubes in the smoke box are burned; five of them are so badly
drawn through from the tube sheet that they have had to be plugged
up (thereby losing so much fire surface). When we have an opporta-
nity eight of the tubes will have to be replaced by new ones, which we
have on board. We experienced very heavy weather just after leaving
Brest. I find the vessel a beautiful seaboat, but am disappointed iu
her steaming qualities, as from some cause not yet discovered we have
not been able to get more than 8 knots with steam alone. I am sorry
to inform you that my expen(hitUre of coal has been necessarily very
great, as I have been obliged to keep steam or banked fires on the ship
all the time, as we were liable to meet an enemy at any moment. I
have now only 60 tons, but will use it as sparingly as possible, as I am
imiost desirous of leaving the coast without touching at any port. Dur-
ing the late gale we lost our stern boat, carried away the foregaff, and
split the inner jib.
	February 19, 2 a. m.T have to report that I have met Captain S.
I Tessierl], and have all on board that was expected, and hope to be off
before daylight.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
		    C. M. Monuis,
		Lieutenant, Commanding.

	Flag-Officer SAMUEL BARRON, C. S. Navy,
	Paris.


Roport of Lieutenant Morris, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Florida, of the arrival of that
vessel at Funchal, Nadeira, transmitting correspondence with the authorities regarding
limit of time in that port.

C. S. S. FLORIDA,
Funeha 1, February 29, 1864.
	Sin: I have the honor to report my arrival at this port on the even-
ing of the 27th. I experienced very heavy weather after leaving the
French coast, and had to use a great deal of coal. As I only had 30
tons when off this island I determined to put iii here, thinking that at
this season of the year, amid after such heavy weather, there would be
but little likelihood of meeting an enemnys vessel. 1, however, found
the U. S. sloop St. Louis here, the U. S. consul just dead, and Mr.
Baymnan appointed in his place by Captain Preble. 1 made all arrange-
mnemits with Mr. Blamidy to get a supply of coal and called on the
governor.
	I had a long interview with him, but he positively refused to let mne
have coal, water, or bread, amid the captain of the port gave me a verbal
order to leave the port, which 1 declined doing without a supply of coal.
Enclosed I send you a copy of my protest, with the captain of the ports
answer- also my answer to it. I called on time governor again to-day
to get him to allow inc the amount of coal required, but he refused and
said unless I would go to sea to-night he would muot give me the 20
tons. The Americami vessels get whatever they wish. Mr. Baymuan
is the cause of all this trouble. I shall leave to-night and continue my
cruise

Page 666

6C6 OPERATIONS OP THE CRtJISP~RSCONFEDEkAT~.

	Mr. Blandy has acted as our friend throughout, and I am afraid will
lose the American custom, as Mr. Bayman told him that it should be
all taken from him should he supply this vessel with coal.
Jam, sir, respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	M. MORRIS,
Lieutenant, Commanding, C. ~. Navy.
	Flag-Officer SAMUEL BARRON, C .S.NAvv,
Paris.
[Enclosures.]

C. S. S. FLORIDA,
Funchal, February 28, 1864.
	SIR: In answer to your request that I should leave this port imine-
diately, I have to state that it is utterly impossible to comply. I would
state that I arrived here last night at 11 oclock, and am out of coal
and require water and bread, and do hereby enter iuy protest against
being forced to leave without the above-mentioned necessaries and
must decline doing so. Should any mishap befall the vessel while out
of fuel your Government will be responsible for the same. It is actu-
ally necessary to have coal, not only for the purpose of propelling the
vessel, but also to make fresh water, as she carries a very small quan-
tity of the latter. I only ask for what the English, French, Brazilian,
and your own Governments have already guaranteed to our vessels.
I have, sir, the honor to be your obedient servant,
C.	M. MORRIS,
Lieutenant, Commanding, C. S. Navy.
JOAQUIN PEDRO DE CASTELBRANCE,
C. F. dA. R. and Captain of the Port.


FUNCHAL, February 28, 1864.
	ILLUSTRIOUS SIR: I have had the honor to inform his Excellency
the civil governor of this district the contents of the dispatch that you
sent me under this days (late in answer to the order given me by the
said governor, and which I verbally transmitted to you, that you should
quit this port within twenty-four hours, and the said governor having
considered the reasons that you lay before me of not hmavimig biscuit,
water, or coals to be able to proceed in your voyage, the said governor
has ordered me to communicate to you that he agrees that you shall
take the necessary biscuit and water and 20 tons coals to enable you to
proceed to the high seas, at same time requiring that you quit this port
by to-morrow evenimig or at latest by to-morrow imight. D. (I. IN. S.
JOAQUIN PEDRO DE CASTELBRANCE,
C. F. WA. P. and Captain of the Port.
Lieutenant MORRIS,
Commanding War Steamer Florida.



C.	S. S. FLORIDA,
Funchal, Madeira, February 29,1864.
	SIR:	Your letter of the 28th instant, in answer to a communication
which you received froni me of the same (late, setting forth the reasons
for my not leaving this port, has been received. You state that hi

Page 667

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDEUATE.	667

Excellency the governor consents to my being supplied with bread,
water, and 20 tons of coals, to enable this vessel to proceed to the high
seas. I will state that [require 40 tons of coals ~z reach the nearest
port where coal can be obtained. I must decline leaving this port with-
out I am allowed to take that amount of coals on board.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C.	M. Moiuris,
Lieutenant, Commanding, C. S. Navy.
JOAQUIN PEDRO BE CASTELERANCE,
C.	P. dA. P. and Captain of the Port.


Extracts from the journal * of Lieutenant John N. IVlaffitt, C. S. Navy, commanding the C. S. S.
Florida, January 13April 30, 1863.

	January 13, [1863].Made a recohnoissance down to the bar. On our
return the piloi~ grounded me off c~ity ~Point. The Morgan arid Gaines
came to my assistance, and we had to take coal, guns, etc., out.
	[January] 15.Got off, and that night made an ineffectual effort to
get out; everybody disappointed.
	[January] 16.Blowing with avidity from the westward; rain at
Bight; had up steam, but the pilot sai(l it was too dark to see Light-
house Island; in fact, nothing could be distinguished 20 yards. At2
I was called; the stars were out, but a light mist covered the surface
of the water.. Got underway; the wind puffy from the W. N. W. At
2: 40 passed a gunboat anchored just inside the bar, then a second one,
but when abreast of the third a tlame from the coal dust caused our
discovery, and the ocean was lit up by the lights from the nine block-
ading vessels. Made sail and put on steam, and then commenced a
most animated chase.
	Oar passing unseen by the first Federal gunboats is hard to account
for. My idea is that during the severity of the storm, then expecting
us, a very anxious looLout had been kept, and that when the weather
moderated all were exhausted and at the same time, from the clearness
of the stars, concluded that if we had not already escaped no attempt
would be made that morning. Moreover, the N. W. wind was very
chilly, and the lookouts, no doubt, in a feeling of security, were comfort-
able under the lee of the bulwarks. Ibelieve that had it not been for
our soft coal we would have passed clear, without any knowledge ou the
part of the enemy.
	The chase was a very determined one, but the Florida, under sail and
steam, was too fast for the Federals. Just before day, when all hands
were breathing with more freedom, a large sail was discovered right
ahead and close aboard. It was a steam sloop of war, under topsails,
and looked like the Brooklyn. We sheered slightly from her, and again
went to quarters. For some fifteen minutes we were under all her star-
board guns, and a broadside would have sunk us. The only evidence
she gave of seeing us was by showing a light over the starboard gang-
way, and continued gracefully on without further notice, taking us, I
presume, for one of theim own gunboats that are so numerous in this
locality.
	* The smooth journal of the Florida was thrown overboard from a blockade run-
ner entering the port of Charleston, S. C. The text is taken from the rou~,h journal
kept by Captain Maffitt, which was 1oaned by his widow to the Navy Department
with his other papers.CoMPILERs

Page 668

668 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERAtE.

	A large armed ship was seen to the eastxvard and a fast gunboat on
the starboard beam. Our friends from the bar continued after us in hot
haste. At 5 p. m. the [R. R.] Onyler (in conseqi~nce of our reduction
of sail to fish the sprung main topsail yard and letting down steam)
came to within 3 miles of us. Set more canvas and increased our revo-
lutions of the engine, which speedily left the Federal out of sight.
Night coming on, changed our course more to the westward, and at
daylight there was nothing in sight but a foaming sea and black clouds.
	The Florida ran, under a pressure, 14-i knots. She is very wet, but
rides the sea like a pilot boat. Now everyone is in line spirits, and the
cruise commences in reality.
	January 19.Captured the brig Lstelle; cargo and vessel worth
$130,000. She is, or was, on her first trip from Santa Cruz, Cuba, to
Boston. The officers and crew seemed astonished and much gratified
with the courtesy exhibited to them. All signed paroles, so made no
confinemeiits. Stood in toward Bahia Honda, and ran the coast down
for Havana to get coal and clothing, for our men were imearly nnde.
At 7:20 p. m. on the 20th of January entered the harbor of Havana.
We were hailed and ordered not to pass the guar(l boat, but not under-
standing nntil the next day the new law of the port, I proceeded on
and came to near the admiralty. After waiting an honr I went on
shore and called upon Major Helm.
	Havana, [January] 21.Made the amnende to the captain of the port
for entering at night; not aware of the new regulatioii. Went to coal
yard and commenced taking in Cardiff coal, selected by Mr. Quinn,
engineer. ~Fhe excitement in Havana omi our arrival was intense;
crowds were on the wharf, and a very strong Southern feeling was
exhibited. As the Americaii consul had sent an express to Key West,
we linew that a Federal fleet would be around this port in twelve
hours, so it was important to be off at once. Could umot get ready in
time, but went to the upper buoy near the guard ship and remained all
night.
	[January] 22.As day dawned left the harbor. Destroyed this (lay
two Yankee vessels, the bark Windward aimd brig (Jorris Ann. At
night went in and anchored nuder Cardenas light to right some valves.
On entering got too close to P. [Cay Piedras] and: lightly touched on
the reef that makes out from the island; exam med propeller and were
soon off again, standing to the northxvard.
	[January] 23.Found the Havana coal defective, though admirable
in appearance. Could make but 3 knots with it. As the Federals
were in sight and could accumulate in overpowering force, ran over
Salt Cay Bank to the eastward, as it was evident that with such fuel
we i~ould not perform our duty.
	[January] 25.IRauu through, as we presumed, Queens Channel ,and
shaped our course to clear Green Cay, slowing down to 3 and 2
miles the hour, that we should not arrive at the banks until dawn.
About 4 a.. m. I fancied that the motion was peculiar, went on deck,
had the lead hove, and to my surprise was in 4 fathoms. Let go the
anchor and awaited daylight. When we could see, found that the cur-
rent had swept about N. E., and we had, with singular fortune, passed
through a narrow channel. Ran out line of soundings, and at 4 p. in.
were all right in the Tongue of the Ocean. Steered for Nassau.
	January 2G.At 2 a. m. made Nassau light. At break of day were
abreast of it, and when the buoy could be seen I ran in and crossed the
bar. The pilot joined as I was just inside. Anchored and was soon
informed by my friend Lieutenant Williams that a port law recentl

Page 669

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	669

made had also been infri.nged here. Went with Lieutenant Williams
to the governors, sent an explanation, and asked permission to coal,
which was given under the twenty-four hour rule. Breakfasted with
Lafittes family and Heyliger, our agent. At 11. went on board and
received the visits of the officers of the West India regiment and other
friends.
	On shore the demonstration was most friendly and congratulatory.
Nassau is decidedly a Confederate stronghold. Some twelve vessels
with cargoes and several steamers for the South were in port. Among
the commanders I met Lieutenant Wilkinson, of the Navy, who com-
manded the Giraffe, and was about making his second trip.
	[January] 27.Finished coaling at 10 a. m. Twenty-six men (our
hard cases) deserted. Obtained several good ones. At 12 were out-
side and hove to, in hopes of filling up our crew; at night ran down to
Green Cay to restow hold and put the vessel in serviceable condition,
which could not well be done at sea.
	The weather stormy. After all things were put to rights and the
vessel repainted, we made an attempt to pass through Queens Channel,
but the mist and breakers obliterated the fiuirway, so stood back.
	On the following day [February 1, 1863] made a course to the [Queens]
Channel. When near it saw a Federal steamer, presumed to be the
&#38; tntiayo do Cuba, of ten guns. As our cruise had but just commenced,
and its object was the destruction of commerce, I did not think it my
duty to seek an engagement and run the risk of injury to my engine,
so kept away. The Federal out-steamed us, and had she wished a bat-
tle nothing w~ms more easy than for her to have come up, but it seems
her engine was always deranged as she commenced getting within
range. We learned afterwards that it was the Sonoma, of four [guns],
and deeply regretted that we did not engage her.
	On the morning of the [2d of Februaryj we cleared Abaco, and the
Federal was nearly hull down. His game was evidently to follow until
he fell in with other Federal cruisers, and then jointly to attack. Stood
to the northward, with the view of giving the coast of New England a
small appreciation of war troubles, but a gale off Cape Hatteras did us
much injury aiid our coal was low, for the Florida, unfortunately, stows
but nine days full steaming coal. Had to run to the southward and
eastward to get out of the circle of the gale. It was a cyclone of con-
siderable power. The Florida behaved Tell, though exceedingly wet.
It was evident now that I would have to enter a West India port for
coal, etc. Deeply did I regrQt my inability to make the anticipated
visit.
	February 5.A misty night. At 8 p. in. made a steamer on our star.
board beam; she changed her course toward us, and seemed very fast.
In an exceedingly short space of time she ran close to us. We saw that
she was very large and lengthy. held a small light over the side.
After rounding to on our starboard quarter she started quite rapidly
to the southward, in the direction of St. Thomas. I am convinced that
it was the Vanderbilt, and we deceived her by a small light, mistaking
us for some West India trader. To have been rammed by this immense
steamer would have closed our career, and all were rejoiced to see her
leave us.
	February 12.At 10 a. m. saw a large sail on our port beam; gave
chase, and at 4 p. m. made a prize of the ship Jacob Boil, of New York.
Her tonnage was about 1,300, and she is esteemed one of the most
splendid vessels out of New York that trades with China.
* Could not havo been the Vanderbilt. See p. 74

Page 670

670 o~mnoirs or m cxuisnsoouni,mn.
A message came. that the captain had ladies on board, and That his
wife was on the eve of confinement. Sent Dr. Garretson on board to
investiqate, and to say that the ladies must le*ve the ship, as I was
determined to burn her. The ladies came, and with tons of baggage.
I surrendered tke cabin. The party consisted of Mrs. Frisbee (cap-
tains wife), Mrs. William~whose husband is a custom-house officer
at Swatow, China; a lad, nis sbee, and another, Charlie
son of a missionary from Rhode Island, now stationed at Swatow.
The passengers and crew amounted to forty-three persons. The Jacob
BeU had a cargo of choice tea, camphor, ohowchow, etc., valued at
*2000,000 or more.
iYcok such articles as we required, and on the 13th [February] set
heron fire.
Mrs. Frisbee was a very quiet, kindhearted lady; Mrs. Williams, I
fancy, something of a tartar; she and Captain Frisbee were not on
 terms. They remained in possession of my cabin for five days, when I
put the entire party on board the Danish brig Morning Star, bound to
St. Thomas. If they speak unkindly, such a thing as gratitude is a
stranger to their abolition hearts.
February 25 [241.AtrivedinBridpetown, Barbados Island. As
usual, we attracted considerable attention and curiosity. The negroes,
en masse, all very demonstrative iii their lanjuage of welcome.
flat a contrast tothe last time I visited this place, in the Macedonia..
frigate, in 1841. Then, the stars and stripes floated over my head and
the Union seemed as firm as the Rock of Ages. Abolitionism was con-
sidered treesonable, and the North and the South were as one, for nul-
lification had died a natural death and harmony guided the national
associations. Now, the Confederate flag, till his day a total stranger
to Barbados, floated from our gaff and the Florida became the first
herald of nationality the inhabitan~ had realized.
Called upon Governor Walker; found him quite a pleasant gentle-
man, though much troubled with a nervous disease of the system. He
seemed in doabt as to the power he had of permitting me to coal, but
I represented that we had been in a severe blow that had done us much
injury and our fuel had been expended in steaming out of It. At his
request I addressed him a communication to that effect and he granted
my application. Dined with him at 7p. in., a regular official dinner,
where some twenty pests, nearly all military, were assembled.
The vessel was visited by nearly all the army officers, and I found
them more than warmly Southern in sentiment. The gaflantry of our
troops was a theme that engrossed all their enthusiasm, and our gen-
erals, particularly Lee and Stonewall Jackson, received many high
professional compliments. McClellan theyregarded as an able general,
but too fond of the spade. Appointed Mr. Robert Gordon, of the firm
of Gavan &#38; Co., Confederate agent, for I foundit absolutely necessary
to have a business Mend on shore to attend to such interests as a Con-
federate vessel might have at stake. Mr. Gordon is a warm Southern
friend, a man of wealth and influence; besides, he has independence
and candorinregardtothe struggle, andinhiawehaveawarm and
devoted Mend.
Two American vessels in ballast were about to sail. The governor
required that I should not depart until they had been out twenty-four
hours, which gave more time for coaling..
February 26 [251.Quite a number of gentlemen came off at dusk to
call. All were full of zeal in their Confederate sentiment. Did the
host to a late hour, and was not benefited thereby, for my piloting wa

Page 671

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	671

not perfect, and I fouled one of the merchant vessels, parting our star-
board mala brace and lifting our second cutter fuoin the fall hooks.
Recovere(l the boat and proceeded out, steaming ~e east.
	Ran to the southward, but could make no casting, so determined to
make latitude 350 and longitude 300 for the N. F. trade.
	February 23 [27].White fell overboard; he could not swim, so the
POOP follow was drowned.
	March 6.At 9 a. in. ran alongside of the Boston ship Star ~f Peace.
Sue was about 1,000 tons, loaded with saltpeter for the Federal Army,
and other cargo besides. Took ou board Captain Hinckley and crew;
burned the ship. When she was on fire exercised our guns upon her;
distance, 850 yards; made some good shots, but the roll was so great
ouu accuracy was not up to our expectations. At 9: 30 p. in., when
some 20 miles from her, the saltpeter ignited, and a more beautiful pano-
mama was never witnessed on the ocean. Although some 20 miles from
her, time flames were so high and so brilliant that the focal rays illum-
med our sails and the ship did not appear more thau 5 miles distant.
	]Jlareh 12 [13].This day captured the schooner Aldebaran, from
New York to Maranham, Brazil. Her cargo was flour, provisions,
clocks, etc. Burned her. Captain hand seemed to think it hard that
so true Southern I)emocrats as his f~ither and himself had been should
have their vessel burned. Found him quite a clever little fellow, mod-
est and polite. Both he and Captaiim II. expressed great opposition to
the war, which they denoummeed as a battle for time negro and not for
the Union.
	[March 18.]-Fell in witlm aim English brig bound to Greenock, Scot-
land. Took captain, mates, and three men. XVe furnished water and
provisions, as the captain feared lie might be on short allowance.
	March 25.]Overhauled aim Austriamm bark bound to New York with
coal for Mr. Ciinard, of the Royal Mail Steam Line. l)oumbted the
propriety of passing her, but at lengtlm gave him all the benefits of the
doubt. lie took a few of our prisoners; furnished provisions and
water.
	March 28. This day, captured the Boston bark Lapzcing, bound to
Batavia, loaded with provisions, himber furniture and coal. Time
cal)tain was terribly excited not d
	Sent	reamnimig of a Confederate man-
of war in his locality. Lieutenant Averett on board, with fifteen
mnen, two howitzers, Acting Midshipmiian l3ryan, Midshipman Dyke,
amid l)r. Grafton. Trust she will prove useful.

	March 30.At 8: 45 p. iii. captured ilL J. (Joleord, bark, from New
York, bound to Cape Town, loaded with assorted cargo; took crew on
l)oard; left captain and wife. Unfortunately, lost Lieutenant Averett
this imight. He must have had a l)ad lookout, for we saw him up to
11: 30 p. in. Fired rocket and had two lights up.
	April 1.At 10 a. in. boarded Danish brig Christian, bound to Santa
Cruz, from Dublin; put all our prisoners on board, furnished liberal
allowance of provisions, and then wrecked amid burmied the M. J. Col-
cord. Steamed to the southward, with the hope of overhauling Mr.
Averett no use.
	April 12.To this date, in the trades, have frequemmtly chased, but
the vessels all proved to, be neutrals. At 11: 40 a. mu. made St. Pauls
islets, a cluster of rocks protruding from the bosom of the Atlantic in
shapes most fantastic. Latitude 55 30 N., longitude 290 22 W. At
2: 20, within nine-tenths of a mile of them, sent a boat within Lienten-
amit Stone to obtaimin sights to correct our chronometer; boat could no

Page 672

672 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

land in consequence of the heavy sea that broke all round them. Fish,
sharks, and birds (boobies) swarmed around these jagged and danger-
ous rocks. No reef surrounds the islets.
	April 13.Calni, with one heavy shower of rain, which was taken
advantage of to scrub hammocks and wash clothes. Nothing of Mr.
Averett. What a misfc~rtnne. The swell is to-day without regularity,
and the barometer fluctuates from 29.90 to 30.30.
	April 14.At 10:50 a. m. made a sail to the southward and east-
ward; lresnmed it might be Mr. Averett. Got up steam and ran down
for the sail. At 3 ~. iii. had the satisfaction of hailing the Oreto [Lap-
wing]; a most fortunate meeting, for both had drifted some 30 miles
away from the rendezvous. The southeast current is very powerful in
our position of latitude 10 8. and longitude 290 16 W. At 5 p. m.
commenced coaling amid continued through the night. A more perfect
Godsend we could not have had at the present moment, particularly as
our l)unkers were nearly empty. Found all on board in good health
aiid living like lords on Yankee plunder. Mr. Averett was unhappy
that he had not captured a prize. His vessel leaks and does not hold
a good wind: will have to burn her when we expend her coal. Very
few vessels are to be seen. Revoked all Mr. Averetts former orders
and directed him to meet me at Fernamido [de] Noronha May 4, when I
will take all his coal, and have, I trust, captured one for further use.
	April 15.Latitude 7 N., longitude 280 54 W. Current to-day
evidently to the northward amid eastward, as we have been hove to
coaling all the livelong day. Tis calm and very hot; coal coming on
board quite well, considering we have to boat it. Blackflsh in numerous
schools all a~round us. Midshipman Sinclair sent on board in place of
Midshipman Dyke; this latter young gentlemnami not troubled with
professional zeal, though his natural ability is excellent. hope to finish
coaling by 12 to-night, surely by daylight, when I shall steam to the
westward in this calm belt. I have always observed that coaling is
demoralizing to a ships compammy; the dirt and temporary abuegation
of the usual formality of a man-of-war produces a general laxity that
can not be avoided unless the officers are experienced in proper dis-
cipline and naval jurisprudence. Unfortunately, the young officers of
this vessel lack that training, and though they place a different esti-
mate upon their ability and performance of duty, yet I have good reason
to regret their waiit of vim and early training that would no doubt have
made themn mnore observant, careful,, and military. They would in
battle fight well, but do not seem fully to appreciate the training
that is necessary for the purpose of being formidable when the trail
comes.
	April 17.Hove to all night with banked fires. At daylight made
out several sail; they all proved to be neutrals. At 10: 20 a. in. cap-
tured ship Commonwealth, of New York, bound to San Francisco. 11cr
cargo consisted of the greatest variety of merchandise. The Federal
Government had in tobacco and provisions $60,000 worth on board;
tIme ship and cargo valued at $370,000. Captain MeClennol I found to
be a most gentlemaiily person, and the cool an(I quiet manner he exhib-
ited under the peculiar annoyammee of his position (Juite won my respect.
Hot, very hot. Papers up to the 19th March; no particular news comi-
taiiied in them. The Yankees primit lies with ease, and endorse the
most absurd statements in regard to the South.
	This muorning Captain MeC., by his Masonic sign, won over a French
captain, who took Imim and temi others as passengers.
	[April 23.]Captured bark H~nrietta, of Baltimore

Page 673

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.
673
	[April 24jCaptarecl the ship Oneida, of New Bedford, from China,
loaded with tea, etc. Her value was not far front 1,000,000. Captaiu
Potter was rather an odd fish, and seemed to thin~ that the rings on
his finger were also seized by the Confliclerates. I told him we had the
example, but followed it not.
	Captain Brown, of the bark Henrietta, is a regular down Easter, full
of Biblical lore on slavery, and yet strong on the constitutional rights
of the South. Mrs. Flories [Flora?] and daughter (13 years old), with
son of 7, and infant, became my guests. Mrs. F. married a Southerner,
and it was quite amusing to hear her Milesian Southern sentiments.
	April 27.Made the peak of Fernando [de] Noronha, which loomed
up heavenward like a giant cloud. This island is a penal colony of
Brazil, and is generally sighted by all vessels bound north or south for
chronometric corrections.
	[April] 28.At I a. m. was startled by the fire bell; found the coal in
port bunker had fired by ~pontmeous combustion; soon extinguished
the same. Fell in with Lapwiny; left her, with orders to come in to
the . She had captured and bonded the Kate Dyer for $40,000;
she had a neutral cargo of guano.
	[April] 29.At Fernando.
[April] 30.Prisoners sent on shore. Liberty given.
[Remainder of journal not found.]


Abstract log of the C. S. S. Florida, Lieutenant 3. N. Xaffitt, C. S. Navy, January 16 to May

31, 1863.

List of officers of C. S. S. Florida when she left Mobile, Ala., Janu ry 16, 1863.

Names.


J.	N. Maffitt               
SW. Averett         
J.	L. floole                 
C.	W. Read                
S.G. Stone                 
F.	(3arretson               
Jos. D. Grafton              
J.	J. Lynch                 
.1.	Spidell                  
It. 5. Floyd                
G.	D. Bryan               
(1.	T. Sinclair               
J.	n. Dyke                
C.	W. Qolan               
W.	n. Jackson              
E.	n. Brown                
T.	T. I-muter, Jr            
Lionel Vogel               
W.	11. Wilson              
Rank.


Lieutenant commanding              
Second lieutenant and executive ollicer....
Second lieutenant                   
 do                            
 do                            
Passed assistant surgeon             
 do                            
Assistant paymaster                
First assistant engineer (acting chief)   
Midshilunan                       
 do                            
 do                            
 do                            
Second assist. mit engineer             
 do                            
Third assistant en~ineer              
Masters mate                      
Captains cleric                     
Paymasters clerk                   
Residence.


North Carolina.
Virginia.
Alahama.
Mississippi.
Alahama.
Virginia.
Arkansas.
North Carolina.
[Alabama.]
Georgia.
Sonth Carolina.
Virdnia.
Florida.
Sontli Carolina.
Maryland.
Virinia.
Maryland.
Soath Carolina.
District of Colombia.

	January 16, 1863.At 2 a. m. got underway and stood for the bar.
At 3 we passed the enemy~s fleet anchored off that place. When about
300 yards ahead of them we were discovered, and two vessels 5C~ll ill
chase. At daylight we saw chase about 12 miles astern havi
ugrun her
hull down. At dark, chase barely visible.
	January 17.At sea. Off the coast of Mexico. Latitude 25~ 4 N.,
longitude 8tP 23 W.
	The origimial log book of the Florida was lost. The text is taken from a cer-
tifieti abstract made by Acting Master G. D. Bryan, C. S. Navy, who was an officer
of the Ilorida during the entire cruise.CowPrLEns.
	N W RYOL ii	4

Page 674

674 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	January 18.Standing toward Cuba. Latitude 23~ 9 N., longitude
85~ 50 W.
	January 19.At daylight two sail in sight, one~u the lee bow, the
other on weather. Latitude 230 50 N., longitude 84~ 14 W. At 2
p. ni. bore down on the sail astern. When about 3 miles distant hoisted
the gridiron; the stranger hoisted the same. Called all hands to quar-
ters, and when about 500 yards astern rounded up under his quarter
and fired a shot across his bow. lie immediately heaved to and hauled
(lown his colors. The gigs with Lieutenant bole and Midshipman
Floyd, followed by launch, with Lieutenant Stone and Midshipman
Bryan, were sent aboard. She proved to be the brig Estelle, of New
York, bound from Santa Cruz to Boston, with a car~o of sngar,
molasses, and honey. flaying stripped h r of everything we uceded,
she was set on fire a little before dark, and we again stood oii our
course, having on board her officers and crew (eight men).
	January 20.Rainy and squally until 9 a  in., when we made the west
efl(l of the iland of Cuba. Changed onr course and ran along the lami
to the eastward. At 3:30 p. in. passed a small steam towboat. A
steamer reported on the port bow. Called all hands to quarters, think-
iug that she was a Yankee. Proved to be a Spanish gunboat. Morro
Castle in sight. Came to anchor iii havana at 7 p. m.
	January 21, 1863.At aiichor in Havana Harbor. Coaled ship and
took aboard provisions and clothing for the crew. Many persons
visited the ship. We were enthusiastically welcomed at Havaia.
	January 22.At 6 a. ni. stood out to sea. The coal we had taken
proved to be worthless and the crew commenced throwing it over-
board. At 1 p. m. we captured and burned the brig Windward, of
~ew York, bound from Matanzas, Cuba, to Portland, Me., with a cargo
of sugar. At 4 p. m. boarded the brig Corns Ann, of PhiladelphL,
and from that place with a valuable cargo for Cardenas. Owing to
n~ismanagement the vessel was burned too near the laud an(l drifted
into the harbor of Cardenas. Our engines giving out, we put into port
at 7 p. in., where we remained until 9 p. m. repairing theni. At 9 we
got underway and stood to sea.
	January 23.Latitude 220 45 N., longitnde 800 10 W.
	January 24.Latitude 22~ 55 N., longitude 760 39 W.
	January 25.At daylight found ourselves on the banks ainl among
the rocks and shoals, Bahama. At 4 p. m. got nn(lerway and stoo(l br
deep water, which we reached at 4: 30 Stood to the northward and
westward.
	January 26.Came to anchor in the harbor of Nassau. At ii a. in.
commenced coaling ship. Received many visitors aboard. Took aboard
stores and clothing. Twenty-six of the ships company deserted, but
only t~-o were of much service. Six good seamen came on board and
were shipped.
	January 27.At 11 a. in. steamed out of the harbor; stoo(l off and on
the harbor until dark, when we took our departure and stood to the
southward and eastward.
	January 28.Running down the Tongue of the Ocean.
	January 29.Latitude 23~ 56 N., lougitude 770 4 W. At 9: 30
came to anchor on the banks about S miles from Green Cay.
	January 30.At 2:30 made a sail to the northward. Called all
hands, up anchor, and hove into 20 fathoms, meady to slip and run.
The sail proved to be a small sloop. When within 6 miles she put about
on the other tack (port). Painted the smokestacks cream color.
	January 31.Latitude 230 35 N., longitude 76~ 55 W

Page 675

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	675

	Febracuy 1.At 4:30 a. m. got underway and stood to the southward.
At S a steamer reported ~u our starboard bow, bearing down upon us.
Made her out to be a side-wheel Yankee man-of-warp Called all hands
to quarters and cleared ship for action. At 8:30 went al)oUt, the Yan-
kee in chase, and steam having gone down, gained on us for some tune,
but on setting all sail, and steam rising, we commenced dropping hini
slowly until dark, when lie came up to within 3 miles of us, but did not
molest us. i)uriug the day shifted two after broadside guns to the
stern ports, so as to bring them to bear on the chase astern; unshipped
the wheel and took the dingey inboard.
	February 2.At daylight chase still in sight on lee quarter. Set all
sail and continued to drop him until 12:30, when he was not to be seen.
Latitude 260 24 N., longitude 75040 W. At 2 p. m. chase in sight on
weather qnarter. Set studding sails below and aloft on foremast and
changed our course to get rid of the Yankee.
	February 3.At daylight chase not in sight. Latitude 290 2 N.,
longitude 740 6 W.
	February 4.Latitude 29~ 50 N., longitude 750 5 W.
	February 5.Latitude 31~ 32 N., longitude 740 W.
	February G.Latitnde 330 33 N., lou gitude 720 20 W. Owing to
time very heavy weather we were obliged to pass unmolested a Yankee
schooner aI1d ship.
	February 7.Latitude 320 N., longitude 71~ 20 W.
	February 8.Latitude 300 52 N., longitude 70~ 40 W. At 5 p. m.
stood t6r a sail. At 5:45 came up to her and hoisted the English
ensign she hoisted the Prussian stood again on our course.
	February 9.1-Latitude 280 38 N., longitude 690 18 W. At 6 p. in.
hauled fires and lowered the after smokestack preparatory to setting
the mainsail.
	February 10.At 8:30 hove to a fore-and-aft schooner. She hoisted
the . English ensign and saluted us. Stood on our course. Latitude
260 53 N., longitude 67~ 50 W.
	February 11.Latitude 250 51 N., longitude 660 36 W.
	February 12.At 8:30 a. in. made a sail on lee beam lowered the
fan, got up steam, and stood in chase. At 4:45 p. in., when about 2
miles from the chase, hoisted the Yankee colors and fired a shot from
fw-ward 1)ivot to heave her to. She hoisted time Yankee colors. Hailed
her and ordered her to haul down, which she immediately did. She
proved to be the Yankee slmip Jacob BeU, of New York, from Foo-Chow,
China, bound to New York, laden with 1,380 tons of tea, 10,000 boxes
of firecrackers, matting, camphor, and cassia. Cutter with Lieuten-
ant bole and Midshipman Floyd and ten men took charge of her.
Brought forty-one prisoners aboard, among whom were two ladies. At
dark lost sight of the prize; hove to and waited for her to come up;
hailed and ordered her to keep company dining the night.
	February 13.At 6: 30 a. in. ina(le a sail two points on the lee bow.
Called away all boats and sent thenm to the prize ship Jacob Bell to
bring stores and baggage from her. Latitude 250 3 N., lommgitude 67~
NV. At 2 p. in. set fire to her amid stood to the northward and west.
ward in chase of anotimer sail. Went to quarters and spoke the chase.
Found her to be the French brig Leortee Lacoste, bo~mud from Martinique
to l4avre.
	February 11.Latitude 250 10 N., longitude 650 14 W.
	February 15.At 5:30 a. um. made a sail on the weather bow stand-
ing to the northward and westward. Made all sail in chase, and c1~ased
her the whole day until night, when she escaped us. Latitude 240 43
N., longitude 630 45 W

Page 676

676 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	February 16.Latitude 230 50 N., longitude 630 40 W.
	February 17.Latitude 21~ 33 N., longitude 630 15 W. At 1 p. m.
a sail was reported on the port beam bearing dowfr on us. When about
4 miles off we hoisted the English ensign, which was answered by her
hoisting the Danish flag. She proved to be the bark Morning &#38; ar, from
New York, bound to St. Thomas. Lowered the first cutter and sent
Midshipman Floyd to board her. Lowered the second cutter and gig
and transferred all the prisoners and their baggage aboard her.
	February 18.Latitude l9~ 31 N., longitude 62~ 50 W.
	February 19.Latitude 200 31 N., longitude 620 28 W.
	February 20.Latitude 180 37 N., longitude 610 51 W.
	February 21.Latitude 18~ 2 N., longitude 61~ 17 W. At 11 a. m.
made a bark on our weather beam running before the wind started in
chase, hoisted English colors; she did the same; stood on our course.
	February 22.Latitude 160 42 N., longitude 60~ 48 W.
	Febru ry 23.Latitude 150 8 N., longitude 590 38 W.
	February 24.At 5:30 a. m. sighted the island of Barbados; ran
along the island to the town of Bridgetown, where we came to anchor
at 10. All the officers were quarantined on account of the twenty-six
men deserting in Nassau.
	February 2.5.At 5 p. m. finished coaling ship. At 7 got underway
and bulled among the shipping in the harbor. Carried away our star-
board main brace and second cutter, the ship being at the time in charge
of the captain. Stood out to sea.
	February 26.Latitude 120 55 N., longitude 580 34 W. Ten men
who had come on board in Bridgetown shipped.
	February 27.-At 5:30 a. m. isaac White, seaman, in the attempt to
unshackle the cable from our weather anchor, was swept overboard;
all efforts to save him were unavailing. Latitude 100 8 N., longitude
570 W.

	February 28.Latitude 90 24 N., longitude 550 19 W.
	March 1.Latitude 70 7 N., longitude 540 1 W.
	March 2.Latitude 8~ 24 N., longitude 540 12 W.
	March 3.Latitude 8~ 28 N., longitude 540 10 XV.
	March 4.Latitude 10~ 29 N., longitude 540 16 W. Ran this day
137 miles.
	March 5.Latitude 130 6 N., longitude 540 19 W.
	March 6.Latitnde 13~ 13 N., longitude 540 38 W. At daylight dis-
covered sail to win dwa~d abont 7 miles. At 7:30 lowered propeller, got
up steam, and started in chase. When about 4 miles from her, called
all hands to quarters and cast loose the weather broadside guns and
pivots; fired a shot across her bow, after which she immediately hove to.
Sent Lieutenant bole and Midshipman Bryan to board her. She
proved to be the Yankee ship Star of Peace, of Boston, bound from
Calcutta to Boston, with a cargo mostly of saltpeter, with cow and goat
skins. Having taken off her officers, who were paroled, and her mcii,
who were put in single irons, we set fire to her at 4 p. in., having the
gratification of knowing that besides being a Yankee she c-ontained
contraband of war. At 4:15 p. in. beat to quarters and fired twenty-
two rounds at the burning prize, six of which struck her. Made all sail
and stood to the northward. At 9 p. in., the saltpeter igniting, the fire
was really beautiful; the sea lit up for 30 miles around.
	March 7.latitude 1(P 55 ~., longitude 540 53 W.
	March 8.Latitude 190 36 N., longitude 540 50 W.
	Maeh 9. Latitude 210 40 N., longitude 540 55 W. At 3:30 p. m.
made a small sail off the weather bow. At 4:30 went about and stoo

Page 677

	OPERATIONS OP THE ORUISflSOOfl!E~~TB. 677
for her; hoisted the Yankee colors, which the stranger returned by
hoisting the French. Sent a boat on board. Prqyed to be a French
fishing schooner.
March 10.Latitude 280 35 N., longitude 540 38 W. At 5:10 dl
coveredasailonleebowandmadeall sailin chase, butowingto aheavy
rain squall we lost her.
Al arch 11.Latitude 250 55 N., longitude MO 10 W. Since the cap-
ture of the Star of Peace no grumbling has been heard among our men,
as particular care was taken to divide the mess stores equally.
March 12.Latitude 280 20 N., longitude 520 51 we
March ItLatitude 290 18 N., longitude 51041 we At 8:30 a. Di.
made a sail on the lee bow, squared away for her and made all sail in
chase. At 11:45 fired a blank charge, after which tbe stranger came
to. At 42 sent a boat aboard of him in charge of Lieutenant Averett;
proved to be an Englishman. Madeaschooner tothenorthward stand
in; for us. Hoisted the English ensign, which was returned by the
stranger hoisting the Yankee tIj~g. Lieutenant Averett boarded her
and took possession. After having transferred her officers, crew, and
all the stores that we wished, wesether on fire atlO:30 p. a Shewas
the A Webaran, of New York, bond from that port to Karanhaut, with
~ cargo of provisions and Yankee fixins.
March 14.Latitude 290 36 N., longitude 480 45 we
March 15.Latitude 29018 N., longitude 440 48 we
March 16.Latitude 38018 N., longitude 420 10 w.
March 17.Latitude 310 51 N., longitude .420 10 w.
March 18.-.Latitude 330 21 N., longitude 390 20 w. At 3:30 a. an.
a bark passed to leeward of us. At daylight made two sail, one on the
lee beani, the other on weather bow. Proved to be the English brig
Rsnatjssedc, from Pernambuco, bound to Grennock [Greenock]. She
took eleven (officers and men) of the prisoners. At 11:30 madeanother
sail on weather bow. Stood in chase. At 7:30 spoke the stranger;
boarded him; proved to be the English ship Larra Afara, from Bagoon
~RangoonJ, bond to Liverpool. Stood on our course.
March 19.Latitude 34048 N., longitude 370 15 w. At 8:30 two
sail in sight, one ahead, the other on starboard bow. Made aU sail and
steam in chase. When withIn 4 miles of them hoisted the Yankee
colors, which was returned by both of them hoisting the English. At
11 tacked the ship and gave up the chase.
March X.Latitude 350 35 N., longitude 3502 w.
March 21.-Latitude 350 57 N., longitude 32042 we Shipped two
of Lhe prisoners of the Star of Peace.
March *2.Latitude 360 46 N. longitude 290 40 w.
March 28.Latitude 36022 iq, longitude 29023 w. Made a sail
on weather bow; chased her all day. It becoming calm in the even-
iog,lowered aboat audsentafterthesail,about6milesot At7the
boat returned, having lost her In the dark.
March 21.Latitude 340 SY N., longitude 29010 w.
March 25.Latitude 34030 11., longitude 29040 w. Boarded the
Austrian bark A. B., for New York, laden with coal consigned to S.
(Ilunard. Put three prisoners a of her and stood on our course.
March 25.LatItude 320 28 N., longitude 31045 w.
March *7.Latitude 310 15 N., longitude 33020 w.
March 28.Latitude 310 N., longitude 330 35 w. At 8:30 sighted
asailontheleebow,about7 miles off. Gotupsteamandstoodinchase.
At 11:30 overhaulid and b7oarded her. She proved to be the Yankee
bark Lapeef.sg, from Boston, bound to Batavia. As the greater part o

Page 678

678 OPERATIONS OF THE ORUISflSOONPEDERATE.

her cargo consisted of coal, Lieutenant B.W. Averett, with Lieutenant
C. W Bead Passed Assistant Burgeon 3. D. G;afton, Acting Midship-
man 3. H. byke and fifteen me took charge of her. Transferred a
fl-ponder )iowitzer with ammunition to the bark, which was named
Onto. Filled away in the afternoon, bark keeping company.
At arch *9.Latitude 310 N., longitude 310 54W. At daylight the
Onto [Lqnoisg] was about 8 miles to leeward. Hove. to and waited
for her to come up. The sea being smooth and very little wind, com-
menced coaling ship; took aboard 10 tons. Acting Meter (1. D.
Bryan was ordered aboard the Onto [Lqno4sg]. Lieutenant Bead was
ordered back to the FIor&#38; IP

Aktnot log of tk.C~ &#38; herb Onto (Lepeksg) fair to LAo 0. &#38; &#38; flrfb, Lfowteueist
	dnwU, 0. 5. .Yesi, nmusemttssg, Meet SOS.	8, 7.868.

March 80.Latitude 290 43 N., longitude 310 40 W. At 4p. m. a
sail discovered right ahead. Signaled to the Florida, made all sail,
andst6odln chase. Atfltheffloridapassedus,headingfOrthe
stranger. At dark neither of them were to be wn.
	Merck 81.Latitude 270 0 N longitude 320 51 W. At 3p. m.
hailed an Austrian brig and asked to be reported.
	April 1.Latitude 240 19 N., longitude . Atil p. m.boarded an
English brig
	April 2.Latitude 2106 N longitude 320 23 W.
	April 8.Latitude 170 29 it., longitude 320 25 W.
	April 4Latitude 1403 N., longitude 320 21 W.
	Aril 5.Latitude 1100 N., longitude  W.
	April (1.Latitude 8019 N., longitude 310 18 W. At 10:30 made
a sail on weather bow; tacked ship and tried to overhaul her; she was
too far to windward. At 11:30 tacked ship and stood on our course.
	April 7.Latitude 50.27 N., longitude 290 59 W.
	April 8.Latitude 20 22 N., longitude 290 38 W. Crew employed
making quaker gun.
	April 9.Latitude 48 N longitude 290 26 W.
	April 10.Latitude 10 S., longitude 2909 W. Crossed the line at
ip. m.
	April 11.Latitude 3 B., longitude 290 29 W. Balk in sight all
wound; chased one of them, who, on coming up, showed the Spanish
colors.
	April 12.Latitude 20 5., longitude 290 31 W. Chased a brig,
who showed English colon.
	April 18.Latitude 3 B longitude 29023 W.
	April 14.Latitude 19 A longitude 290 7 W. At noon made the
smoke of a steamer. Proved to be the Florida, who lowered boats and
commenced coaling immediately.
	April 15.Latitude 3 B longitude 280 54 W. Still coaling the
Florida. Here we were toid that she had captured the bark [M.J.1
Goloord, of New York. Acting Midshipman 3. II. Dyke was ordered
aboard the Florida and Midshipman (.1. T. Sinclair ordered aboard this
vessel in his place.
	April 16.Latitude 8 5., longitude 280 59 W. Continued coaling
the Florida until 1:30 p. a, when we set sail on our course to the
southward.
April 17.Latitude 18 5., longitude 290 13 W.
	Them isa hiatus in this log book of the Florida from March30 to May 2, inclu-
sive, for the reason that Acting Master (I. I. Bryan, who kept this log book, was
transferred to she Onto (Lepu4ssg) on March S.OoMrJLURS

Page 679

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	679

April 18.Latitude 54 S., longitude 290 35 W.
	April 19.Latitude 54 S., longitude 290 37 W.
	April 20.Latitude 10 13 S., longitude 3O~ 11 W. At 6 a. m. made
a sail on lee bow, standing S. W. She showed the French flag. At
6:30 made a ship to leeward; stood in chase. She proved to be the
Yankee ship Kate Dyer, seventy-two days from Callao, bound to Antwerp
with a neutral cargo of guano. Bronglit the captain on board and
bonded him for $40,000.
	April 21.Latitude 10 29 5., longitude 38~ 34 W.
	April 22.Latitude 2~ 27 5., longitude 300 33 W. Overhauled a
topsail schooner, which showed the Spanish ensign.
	April 23.Latitude 30 10 S, longitude 310 16 W. Passed a sail
showing Spanish colors; answered with the Yankee flag.
	April 24.Latitude 40 45 5.~ longitude 32~ 34 W. At 6 a. iii. sighted
Fernando de Noronha, bearing N. by W., distant 20 miles. Passed
three sail standing to the northward, to one of which we gave our lati-
tude and longitude by signal.
	April 25.Latitude 30 36 5., longitude 320 6 W.
	April 26.Latitude 30 25 5., longitude 320 25 W.
	April 27.Latitude 20 47 5., longitude 320 25 W.
	April 28.Latitude 2~ 58 5., longitude 32~ 48 W. At 2:30 p. m.
made a steamer to windward. At 4:15 she caine up and 1)roved to be
the Florida. We lowered a boat and conununicated. Learned that she
had captured the ship Commonwealth, from New York to San Francisco,
with an assorted cargo; the bark Henrietta, from Baltimore to Mo [del
Janeiro, with assorted cargo; also the ship Oneida, from Shanghai,
bound to New York with a cargo of tea.
	April 29.Latitude 30 23 5., longitude [320 47 W].
	April 30.Made smoke of a steamer on starboard beam. She proved
to be a Brazilian mail boat. At 4 seut a boat with two officers and seveii
men to board a bark to leeward.
	May 1.At 8:40 a. m. boat returned and reported the vessel to be the
English bark Agri pina, with a cargo of coal for the C. S. S. Alabama.
	May 2.Latitude 30 50 5., longitude 320 46 W.
	May 3.Off Fernando de Noronha. At 9 a. in. the Florida caine up
with us. Got ready to be taken in tow. At 12:15 in tow of the Florida,
heading for the island. Coaling the Florida. Lieutenant Averett,
iDr. Grafton, and Acting Master (I. D. Bryan were ordered back to the
Florida. Acting Master 11. 5. Floyd took charge of the Lapmving.

Ab8tract log of Floridacontinued.

	May 3.Off Fernando de Noronha. At 9 a. m. the Florida caine up
with the Lapwing [Oreto. j Lieutenant Averett 1)r Grafton, and Act-
ing Master G. D. Bryan were ordered back to the Florida. Acting
Master F. S. Floyd took charge of the Lap wing.
	May 4.IReceived coal from the bark until 6 p. in., when we cast off
froin her and stood to sea.
	May 5.Communicated with the Lapwing at 1 p. mu. Spoke a
Brazilian bark at 5:30 p. m.
	May 6.At 2:30 a. m. spoke the Lapwing. At 8:20 spoke a Span-
ish brig. At 9:45 hailed the Yankee brig Clarence, from Rio to Balti
wore, with a cargo of cotThe, and imide her a prize. Chased a hark to
windward, which l)rove(l to be the Lapwing. Returned to the Clarence.
Lieutenant C. W. Read, Second Asshitant Engineer FL II. Brown, and
twenty men were sent aboard to take charge. Made laud ahead. Pu

Page 680

680 OPERATIONS OF TUE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

one howitzer and equipments, also small arias, aboard of the brig.
Second Lieutenant C. NV. Read took command of her with sealed
orders. At 6 p. m. parted company witli thc4rig and stood to the
southward and westward under steam and all sail.
	May 7.Running down the Brazihiau coast. At 4:30 exchanged
colors with the English bark Hindoo, of Liverpool. At 6:45 boarded
the English brig Amelia, from St. John, New J3rnnswick, to Pernain-
bnco. Spoke English bark Clara, from Pernambuco to Liverpool. At
11 made Pernambuco light.
	May 8.Came to anchor in harbor of Pernainbuco.
	May 12.At 2 p. in. got underway and steamed out of the harbor of
Pernambuco. Lay to near the French mail steaiiier and boarded her
for news.
	May 18.At 3: 30 p. m. took as prize the ship Crown Point, thirty-
four days from New York, bound to San Francisco with an assorted
cargo. Took from her the stores we needed, and at 11: 30 set her on
fire.
	May 15.At 10 a. in. made Cape St. [San] Roque, bearing W. by S.,
distant 15 miles.
	May 1G.At 3 p. m. made Rocas Shoals and came to anchor at 4,
beacon ou the shoal bearing S. E.. distant 1 mile.
	May 18.The 1)ody of John Johnson, seaman, was sent ashore to be
l)uried, accompanied by most of the officers and men.
	iThy 20.At 4 p. in. a sail rel)ortc(L to the eastward. Got underway
and stoo(l for her. A t 4: 20 tower on Rocas bore S. NV distant 2 miles.
At 6 overhauled the sail. Prove(l to be a I)anish brig. She took ten
of our pri~oners. At 8 steamed slowly to the eastward.
	May 21.At 1~ 30 p in. sighted the Rocas and stood for it and caine
to anchor.
	May 29.At 5:30 p. in. some of the officers went ashore in the third
cutter. At 5: 45 discovered a signal made by the party ashore; also
that the boat had been upset. 1)ispatched the gig to th cii assi stain ice.
Gig returned, nnable to land. Brought off Williamu Sharkey, one of the
capsized boats crew. At S sent Lientenant Stone ashore in second
cutter. On landing he found all safe except Passed Assistant Surgeon
Joseph D. Grafton, who, while in the breakers, generously relinquished
his means of safety (an oar) to one of the men, who appealed to him
as unable to swim.
	May 30.Sent dingey ashore with orders for the Oreto [La pwing~.
Enclosed orders in a bottle and nailed a signal on the beacon staff as
a guide. At 4 p. in. got underway md stood to the westward.
May 31.At sea.
	[Remainder of this log book not found.]



Abstract log of the C. S. S. Florida, September 17, 1863March 31, 1864.

Commander J. N. Barney, C. S. Navy, September 17, 1863January 9, 1864, and Lieu
tenant C. At. Morris, C. S. Navy, January 9 to March 31, 1864.

	September 17, 1863.71n dock, Brest navy yard, France.
	September 23.At 5:30 a. mu. the navy yard pilot came on board and
moved down alongside a hulk inmear the entrance of the harbor.
	October 9.From 12 to 4 ~ in.: A Yankee man of-war boat came
alongside with a communication for Captain Barney. Sent a boat
aboard the Yankee with the communication unopened

Page 681

	OPE PATIONS OF THE CRU1SER~CONFEDERATE.	681

	December 2G.At 1:30 p. m. left our berth alongside of huik; taken
in tow by a steamer, and at 2: 15 came to in the roads.
	December 29.Meridian to 4 p. in.: American gunboat Kearsarge left
the harbor.
	J((nnary 3, 1864.Meridian to 4: U. S. S. Kearsarge steamed into
the roads and immediately went to sea again.
	January 4.At 12:30 p. in. hove up and got underway with steam
for the purpose of trying engines. At 2, when oft outer light-house,
started back. At 3:30 came to near old anchorage. Experiments
with engines satisfactory.
	Jan nary 9.At 1 p. m. Commander J. N. Barney, in the presence of
the officers and crew, turned over the command to Lieutenant Com-
manding C. M. Morris.
	January 16.At 8: 50 a. in. Federal steamer Kearsarge came to
anchor.
	February 10.At 2 a. in. got underway in charge of the pilot and
stood to sea.

List of officeis of the C. S. ~S. Florida when she left Bi-est, France, February 10, 1864.
			State from which
	Names.	Rank.	  appointed.
c. MI. Morris - - - 	Lieutenant commanding	Georgia.
5. W. Averett	First lieutenant and executive officer	virginia.
J. L. Hoole	Second lieutenant	Alabama.
S. G. Stone	   do	   1)0.
5. Barren 	Acting lieutenant	virginia.
T. J. Chariton	Passed assistant surgeon	Geor~ia.
Richard Taylor	Assistant paymaster	virginia.
R. S. Floyd	Acting master	Georgia.
G. ID. Bryan	   do	South carolina.
F. Finery	Assistant surgeon	District of columbia.
c. W. Qaina	First assistant engineer, acting chief	South carolina.
G. F. Sinclair	Midshipman	virginia.
J. TI. Dyke	   do	Florida.
W. Ii. Sinclair	   do	virginia.
ID. MeWillians	First assistant engineer	Maryland.
J. C. Lake	Second assistant engineer
Walter Rose	Third assistant enaineer             
F. F. Ilunter,jr	Misters mate	Maryland.
XV. ID. Rough	captains clerk	   Do.



	February 11.At 4:30 a. in. made a strange light on starboard
quarter. Finding that she was overhauling us, went to quarters and
hauled up, whereupon she passed across our stern. Latitude 460 40
N., longitude 6~ 35 W.
	February 12.Latitude 470 6 N., longitude 80 31 W.
	February 13.Latitude 470 45 N., longitude 100 W.
	February 14.Latitude 470 20 N., longitude 110 48 W.
	February 15.At 8:30 a. in. squared in chase under steam and sail.
At 9:45 overhauled English baik Premier, of London. IRan up French,
United States, and Confederate colors itt succession. At 110 tacked
Nilip. Passed also a large English ship on port tack without any head
booms. Latitude 470 23 N., longitude 120 21 W.
	February 1G.From 8 to meridian: Several sails in sight. At 11 :30
wore ship and stood after a ship in appearance an American. Lati-
bide 450 45 N., longitulie 110 2 W.
	February 18.From 8 to midnight: Standing in for Belle Isle light.
At 11:30 a small steamer caine out aimd spoke us; followed her in.
several small sail in sight. Latitude 470 8 N., longitude 40 47 W.
	February 19.At 12:30 a steam tug came alongside. IReceived from
her 2 pivot-gun slides and carriages, 24 shackles and bolts, 1 box of inisce

Page 682

682 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE

laneous articles, and 1 set of hide wheel ropes. Unbent chains, stowed
port anchor, got the battery in place. At 3:25 went ahead under
steam. Latitude 460 46 iN., longitude 50 35 W.
	February 20.At 10:25 a. m. hauled up and spoke the bark George
Canning, from London to New Zealand. Latitude 450 51 N., longitude
90 35 W.
	February 21.Latitude 440 3 N., longitude 110 6 W.
	February ~  Latitude 420 42 N., longitude 120 43 W.
	February 23.Latitude 41~ 54 N., longitu(le 120 50 W.
	February 24.Latitude 400 45 N., longitude 14~ 5 W.
	February 2.5.LatituOe 38~ 59 N., longitude 14~ 58 W.
February 2G.Latitude 350 52 N., longitude 150 3 W.
	February 27.At 9:15 a. in. mustered crew at quarters and exercised
No. I pivot gun, which proved nearly unmanageable. At 12:15 p. in.
discovered the island of Porto Santo right ahead. At 7: 50 hauled
up under the lee of the Madeiias. Latitude 3$30 35 N., longitude
16~ 14 W.
	February 28.At anchor, Funchal, Madeira.
	February 29.At anchor, Funchal, Madeira. At S p. in. got under-
way and stood to the eastward.
	March 1.Latitude 3l~ 16 N., longitude 170 11 W.
	March 2.At daylight Thur sail in sight, three brigs and one bark.
Latitude 3Q0 52 N., longitude 170 10.
	Alareh 3.At daylight niade l)eak of Teneriffe right ahead. Several
sail iu sight. Standing along the island of Tenerifte. Latitude 280 59
N., longitude 160 24 W.
	March 4.From 4 to 8 a. in. standin~ around the easter;i point of
Teneriffe toward Santa Cruz. At 8:30 caine to anchor off Santa Cruz.
	March 5.From 3 to 6 p. m. hove up anchor and got underway.
Suspicions sail in sight; supposed to be the St. Louis. Six to 8, under
full head of Steam, staudnig along tile coast of TeneriiTh.
	March 7.Latitude 270 10 ~ _ longitude l8~ 2 W.
March 8.Latitude 240 45/ T~ longitude 21~ 38 W.
March 9.Latitude 23~ 51 N., loijoitude 930 5 XV.
	March 10.Latitude 230 19 Th. longitude 230 45 W.
	March 11.Latitude 220 25 N., ioiigitudc )50 56 W.
	March 12.Latitude 21~ 4t N., lonoi~nde 28~ 38 W.
	March 13.Latitude 210 3 N., long~t~jde 300 6 W.
March 11.Latitude 20~ 36 N., lon~tndc olO 15 W.
March 15.Latitude 20~ 15 N longitude 310 58 W.
	March 1G.Latitude 190 49 N., longitude 330 33 W.
	March 17.Latitude 190 36 N., longitude 350 47 W.
	March 18.Latitude 190 26 N., longitude3SO33/W.
	March 19.Latitude 21~ 13 N., longitude 390 58 W. Meridian to 3
p. in.: Iii chase of two vessels; one ahead appeared to be a brig stand-
ing west. Abandoned the chase of this vessel aiid made sail in chase
of a brig to the northwar(i. At 7:30 p. in. boarded the Eiiglish brig
Chancy, from IRio [de] Janeiro to Liverpool. At 7:40 stood on our course.
	March 20.Latitude 210 9 N., loin~itude 40~ 11 W.
	March 21.At 9 a. in. showed English colors to a French brig ou
weather quarter. Lowered screw and steamed in chase of a bark on
lee bow, with steam on after boiler. At 2 P. in. caine up with chase, a
Prussian bark; showed her Yankee colors. Latitude 210 18 N., longi-
tude 4()0 14 W.
March 22.Latitude 21~ 14 N., longitude 400 14 W

Page 683

	OflEATIONS OF THU CRUTS1DRSOONFEDERATB.	688

March 25.Latitude 200 56 N., longitude 380 29 we
March 54.Latitude 190 49 N., longitude 870111W.
March 25.At 9 at m. showed French colors to Ihlian brig 1~a.cemn,
standing to westward. Latitude 1902 N., longitude 350 57 we
March 26.Latitude 170 54 N., longitude 350 10 W.
March 27.Latitude 100 56 N., longitude 340 28 we
March *8.Latitude 160 24 N., longitude 340 26 we
	March 2.9.At 10:15 at m. showed English colors to Dutch brig
standing to the northward. From 3 to 6p. m. a sail in sight, standing
toward us. At 4:10 met her; she hoisted Yankee color hailed and
ordered her to heave to. Shortened sail, wore ship, and iove to with
maintopsail to themast and spanker. Bonded her and hand that she
was the ship Avon, of Boston, from [lowlands Island, with a cargo of
guano (1,600 tons), bound to Cork for orders. Bent second and third
cutters aboard the prize with four officers and the port watches. From
6 to 8p. m. employed wrecking prize. The captain, his wife and two
children, three mates, and seventeen men of the Aton came on board.
At 9 stcod south the prize following astern. Latitude 150 11 N., lon-
gitude 340 25W.
	Mareh3O.~EmployedwreckingprJZe. Atil ftnishedwrecking. Offi-
cers and men returned on board from prize, leaving her hove to.
Hoisted second cutter and one of the p*es boats in place of first cut-
ter. At ip. m. went to quarters and practiced at prize. Fired four
shells from No.2 pivot, one of which went through her foresail; three
from No.2 broadside; a fragment of one of the shells went through her
hull below mizzen chains, and six from No.3 broadside: one struck a
chain plate of the fore rigging, burst, and did great damage to her rail
and forward house; another through her foresail. The remainder of
the idiots were poor. At 8 sent a boat aboard of prize and set her on
lire in several places. At 4:15 wore ship and stood toward the burn-
ing prize to pick up first cutter, which was hoisted In gigs place, she
being shattered by concussion of broadside guns. At 4:45 filled away
on course. Latitude 14010 N longitude 34019 we
	March 81.Latitude 120 11 1*., longitude 330 55 we




	(Jrteieee of the (7. &#38; &#38; Alabama and tender Tvecalooea
	kwtof Oamaa(nSemaU, 0.5.1.	U.S. 5. MOms, dtho aids aunt
u.S ha Jasuaq 4

(3.	5. 5. ALAnAxA,
Bahia, Hag 1*, 1868.
	Sn: My last dispatch to the Department was dated on the 4th cf
January last from the Arcas Islands, in the Gulf of Mexico. I now
have the honor to inform you briefly of the proceedings of this ship,
under my command, since that date. My object in going into the Gulf
of Mexico was to make a night attack upon the transports of Bankss
expedition, of thepreparation of whieh I had seen some accounts in the
Northern newspapers, captured on boardthe Arid in November last.
I concluded from these accounts that the expedition was destined for
Tens, and I presumed that it would rendezvous at Galveston. As it
was said that the expedition was to consist of 20,000 men, I knew that
a large number of transports would be necessary, and, as therewere bu

Page 684

684 OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE

12 feet of water on the bar at Galveston, as a matter of course many of
the transl)orts would be obliged to anchor outside of the l)ar. If my
5upl)ositiOn as to the destination of this ticet wa~ correct, by timing my
arrival properly I might hope to attack forty or fifty transports laden
with troops, in the darkness of the night, sink or set on fire many of
them, and escape before I could be pursued by a superior force.
	To carry out this pnrpose I ordered my coal ship to meet me at the
Areas, where I filled up with coal, and on the ~th of January 1 made
sail for Galveston. Tn the meantime, as the Department knows, the
expedition of General Banks took another direction, and landed at
New Orleans. I arrived off Galveston (under sail) on the 11th of Jan-
nary, and just before nightfall we made the enemys fleet lying off the
bar, consisting of five ships of war. One of the steamers was soon
after perceived to get underway and steer in our direction. I ordered
steam to be oot up, but kept sail on the 5hip as a decoy, that I might
entice the enemys ship sufficiently far from the fleet to offer her battle.
I wore ship and stood away from the bar, permitting the enemy to
approach me by slow degrees. When the enemy had approached suffi-
ciently near, I took in all sail and wearing short around ran up within
hail. It was now dark, it being about 7 oclock. The enemy hailed,
What ship is that 6?~~ We responded, Her Majestys steamer Petrel.
The reply was, I will send a boat on board. We now hailed in turn
to know who the enemy was, and when we had received the reply that
he was the U. S. S. JJ((tteras we again hailed him amid informed him
that ~ve were the C. S. S. Alebarna, and at the same time I directed the
first lieutenant to open fire upon him. Our fire was promptly returned,
and a brisk action ensued, which laste(l, however, only thirteen min-
utes, as at the end of that time the enemy fired an off gun atid showed
a light, and upon being hailed by us to know if he had surrendered,
he replied that he had and that he was in a sinking condition. I imme-
diately dispatched boats to his assistance, and had just time to remove
the crew when the ship went down. The casualties were slight on
both sides, although the action was fought at a distance of from 150 to
400 yards. Our shot all told ou his hull about the water line, and
hence the small number of killed and won tided on the part of the enemy
2 of the former amid 3 of the latter. We had none killed and only 1
wounded. The Ilatterc s niounted eight guns, and had a crew of 18
officers and 108 men. The Alabama also mounted eight guns (with a
small captured piece, a 24-pounder, too light to be of any service) arid
had a crew of 110 men, exclusive of officers. Four of the Hatteras
guns were 32-p ounders, the same. caliber as our broadside guns, but
our pivot guns were heavier than hers, this being the only disparity
between the two ships.
	We. received a few shot holes from the enemy, doing no material
damage. The enemys steamer Brooklyn and another steamer steamed
out in pursuit of us soon after the action commenced, but missed us in
the darkness of the night.
	Being embarrassed with a large number of prisoners, I steamed
directly for Jamaica, where I arrived on the 20th of January. Here I
landed my prisommers, repaired damages, coaled ship, and on the 25th of
January 1 I)roceeded to sea again. On the 28th of January I touched
at the city of San Domingo, in the isl amid of the same name, and lauded
the crews of two of the enemys ships which I had burned. I sailed
again on the next day, and made my way to the equator, thence to the
island of Fernando de Koronha, and thence to this place, where 

Page 685

	OPERATIONS OF THE C [iUISEIISCONFEDERATE.	685


arrived yesterday, burning, bonding, and destroying the enemys ships,
as per list enclosed. The total value of vessels thus disposed of to
date is $3,100,000. The total number of prisouers~ paroled to date is
795.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
	Commander.
	Hon. S. It. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy, Richmond, Va.

[Enclosure.]

List of vessels captured, burned, and bonded from 25th of January to 10th of May, 1863.
Bark Golden Rule, burned.	Whaling schooner Kingfisher, burned.
Brig Chastelain, burned	Ship Nora, burned.
Schooner Palmetto, burned.	Ship Chas. Hill, burned.
Bark Olive Jane, burned.	Ship Louisa Hatch, burned.
Ship Golden Eagle, burned.	Whaling bark Lafayette, buriied.
Ship Washington, bonded.	Whaling brig Kate Gory, burned.
Ship Belhiah Thayer, bonded.	Whaling bark Nye, burned.
Ship John A. Parks, burned.	Ship Dorcas Prince, burned.
Ship Punjaub, bonded.	Ship Sea Lark, burned.
Ship Morning Star, bonded.	Bark Union Jack, burned.

Total captured to date, 45.


Ransom bond of the U. S. ship Washington, captured by the C. S. S. Alabama February 27, 1863.

	Know all men by these presents, that whereas the ship Washington,
of New York, under my command, was this day captured on the high
seas as prize of war by the C. S. steamer of war Alabama, It. Semmes,
commander and whereas J, Joseph G. White, master of said ship as
aforesaid, am desirous of ransoming said ship for the benefit of myself
and of the owners thereof, to wit, William T. Frost, James M. Hicks,
George Bell, Thomas Eggleston, Joshua Battell, Horace Wright, David
L. Young, Robert L. Taylor, Pitkiu Page: Now, therefore, I, Joseph
G. White, master of the said ship as aforesaid, acting for myself and
the above-named owners, as I am empowered to do by the laws of
nations, for and in consideration of the release of said ship by the
captor, the release whereof is hereby acknowledged, (10 acknowledge
myself and the aforesaid owners, to wit, William T. Frost, J~ ines M.
flicks, (5eorge Bell, Thomas Eggleston, Joshua Battell, Horace Wri~ht,
David L. Young, Pobert L. Taylov, Pitkiii Page, jointly and severally
indebted to the President of the Cdnfederate States of America, an(i
his successor and successors in office, in the sum of $50,000, which sai(l
sum of $50,000 well and truly to pay unto the President of the Con-
federate States of America, his successor and successors in office,
within thirty days after the conclusion of the present war between the
said Confederate States and the United States, 1 hereby bind myself
and the above-named owners, jointly and severally, and my and
their heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns. And I do hereby
hypothecate the said ship, her tackle and apparel for the payment of
this bond.
	Done this the 27th day of February, in the year of our Lord 1863, at
sea, on board the C. S. S. Alabama.
JOSEPH G. WHITE. [SEAL.]
	Witness:
W.	B. SMITH,
Commanders Clerk

Page 686

68G	OPE 1~ATIONS OF THE CRU1SERSCO~FEDERATE.

Ransom bond of the U. S. ship Bethiah Thayer, captured by C. S. S Alabama March 1, 1853.

	Know all men by these presents, that wher~s the ship Bethiah
Thu yer, of Rockland, Me., under my command, was this day captured
on the high seas as prize of war by the C. S. steamer of war Alabama,
li. Semmes, coinmander and whereas 1, Thomas M. Cartney, master of
said ship as aforesaid, am desirous of ransoming said 51111), together
with her freight moneys for the present voyage, for the benefit of
myself and of the owners thereof to wit. William McLoon and Horace
Williams: Now, thereibre, 1, Thomas M. Cartney, master of the said
ship as aforesaid, acting for myself and for the above-named owners,
as I am empowered to do by the laws of nations, for and in considera-
tion of the release of said ship by the captor, the release whereof is
hereby acknowledged, do acknowledge myself and the aforesaid owners,
to wit, William McLoon and Horace Williams, jointly and severally
indebted to the President of the Confederate States of America, and
his successor and successors in office, in the sum of $40,000, which said
sum of $40,000 well and truly to pay unto the President of the Confed-
erate States of America, his successor and successors in office, within
thirty days after the conclusion of the present war between the said
Confederate States and the United States, I ii ereby bind myself and
the above-named owners, jointly and severally, and my and their heirs,
administrators, executors, and assigns. And 1 (10 hereby hypothecate
the said ship Bethiah Titayer, of Rockland, Me., together with her
tackle atid apparel, for the payment of thi3 bond.
	Done this the 1st of March, in the year of our Lord 1863, at sea, on
board the C~ S. S. Alabama.
THOMAS MITCHELL CAImTNEY. [sEAL.]
	Witness:
W.	B. SMITH,
Commanders Clerk.


Ransom bond of the U. S. ship Punjaub, captured by the C. S. S. Alabama March 15, 1863.

	Know all men by these presents, that whereas the ship 1unjaub, of -
Boston, Mass., under my conunand, was this day capture(l on the high
seas as prize of war by the C. S. steamer of war Alabama, R. Semmacs,
commander; an d whereas I, Lewis F. Miller, master of said ship as
aforesaid, am desirous of ransoming said ship, together with her
freight moneys on this voyage, for the benefit of myself and of the
owners thereof, to wit, Nathaniel H. Elnmons, jr., Thomas B. Wales
Natha~,iel H. Emmnons, and Thomas B. Wales, Jr., copartimers; Frederick
II. Bradley and Frederick W. Bradley, J. Bowdoin Bradley, Thomas
B. Wales, Elizabeth XV. Emmons, amid l)avid Crocker: Now, therefore,
1, Lewis F. Miller, master of the said ship as aforesaid, acting for
myself and for the above-named owners, as I amn empowered to do by
the laws of nations, for and in consideration of the release of said ship
by the captor, the release whereof is hereby acknowledged, do acknowl-
edge myself and the aforesaid owners, to wit, Nathaniel If. Emmons, jr.,
Thomas B. Waits, Nathaniel H. Eminons, and Thomas B. Wales, Jr.,
copartners; Frederick H. Bradley and Frederick W. Bradley, J. Bow-
doin Bradley, Thomas B. Wales, Elizabeth W. Bmnmons, and l)avid
Crocker, jointly and severally indebted to the President of the Confed-
erate States of America, a his successor and successors in office, in
the sum of $50,000, which said sum of $50,000 well and truly to pay unt

Page 687

	OPERATIONS OF THE (YRUISflSCONFEDERATE;	68?

the President of the Confederate States of America, his successor and
successors in office, within thirty days after the conclusion of the pres-
at war between the said Confederate States and thE United States, I
hereby bind myself and the above-named owners, jointly and severally
and my and their hefrs,administrators, executors, and. assign And I
do hereby hypothecate the said ship, her tackle and apparel, for the
payment of this bond.
Done this 15th day of March, in the year of our Lord 1863, on board
the C. S. S. Ak*..., at sea.
Luwis F. MaLa. [sna]
Witness:
W.	B. 5Mm,
Cosssasd.rs Clerk.
TaSte km. Gamuamle uiunas~@j. Navy,	0. L thIahaina, S. S. gnaw
at DaMs, EraS, daylag	utatemat that	C matr.hty hat baa a-
mittS by that vuaL
A.
C.	S. S. ALABAMA,
Bakia, Atag 1*, 1868.
Sm:	IhavehadthehonortoreceivetheverbalccinmunicatioflmadetO
me by yourmessenger this morning, and the copy of the Diario de Bahia,
containing, some comments upon the proceedings of this ship at the
Island of Fernando de Noronha, and I hasten to assure your Excellency
that there is no truth whatever in the statement that the neutrality of
Brazil has been violated by the Alabama. There are two allegations
made against me in the newspaper to which I have referred. The first
is that I have made Fernandode Noronha a station from which to carry
on warlike operations against the enemy and the second is that I cap-
tired and burned ships within the jurisdiction of the island. Neither
of these allegations is true. I did not make a station of Fernando de
Noronha, but went into the roadstead of thatisland to refresh my crew,
refit my ship, etc., and while I was lying at anchor for this purpose, two
ships of the enemy having appeared in the offing, I got underway, went
outside of the marine leaguefrom the island, and captured them. One
of them I burned, and the other I brought into the roadstead with the
prisoners of the burned ship on board with the view of asking the gov-
ernors permission to land them on the island. This permission was
given me, and the prise,to ther with another ship of the enemy,which
I had taken into the [roadstead] on the first day of my arrival, also
with prisoners on board were sent out to sea, to a distance of at least
5 miles, and burned. will thus appear to your Excellency that the
most scrupulous care was paid by me to the neutrtlity of Brazil during
my stay at Fernando de Noronha; that I neither made it a station for
the purpose of carrying on the war against the enemy (having gone in~
as 1 have already stated, for a different purpose and one entirely com-
patible with the neutrality of Brapil) nor captured nor burned any ves-
sel within the jurisdiction of Fernando de Noronha. The most friendly
relations existed between the governor and myself during my stay at
the island, and both he and his officers expressed themselves satisfied
with the care I had taken to avoid any infringement whatever of the
nentral rights of Brazil, a nation between which and ourselves there
are too many interests in common to render it supposable that I should
treat her with other than the most scrupulous respect

Page 688

688 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Ihave come into the port of Bahia with eighty-four more prisoners
on board and in quest of coal and supplies, and I take it for granted
that the same hospitality will be extended to methat Brazil daily prac-
tices toward the cruisers of the enemy; nothing more.
	I enclose for your perusal a letter * from the governor of the island
of Fernando de Noronha of the 17th of April last, giving me permission
to land my prisoners, and from which your Excellency will perceive that
no complaint of any kind was made to me by that officer. This letter
was dated after the occurrence of the events related in the Diarlo
(IC Bahia. Be pleased to return me this letter when you shall have
perused it.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ZR. SEMMES,

Commander.
	His Excellency the GOVERNOR OF BAInA.



Letter from Captain Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Alabama, to Lieutenant Low,
C. S. Navy, assigning him to the command of the C. S. bark Tuscaloosa.

B.
C.	S. S. ALABAMA,
At Sea, June 21, 1863.
	SIR: You are hereby assigned to the command of the C. S. bark
Tu8caloosa ~ late the U. S. bark Conrad, captured by this ship as prize
of war on the 20th day of June, 1863, and this day armed and com-
missioned by me as a tender to the C. S. S. Alabama, under my com-
iiiand
	I will send you on board from this ship a suitable complement of
ofiieers and men, and you will proceed on board immediately, assume
coitimand, and prepare your ship for a cruise.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
ZR. SEMMES,
Captain, C. S. Navy, and Senior Officer in the South Atlantic.
JOHN Low,

Acting Second Lieutenant, Commandant.


Letter from Captain Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Alabama, to Lieutenant Low,
C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. bark Tuscaloosa, giving instructions regarding the cruise of that
vessel.

C.
C.	S. S. ALABAMA,
At Sea, June 21, 1863.
	SIR: With the C. S. bark Tuscaloosa, a tender to this ship, under
your command, you will proceed on a cruise against the commerce of
the United States, with which States the Confederate States are at
war. As most of the ports of the Confederate States are blockaded by
the enemy, and as the maritime powers of the world have prohibited
1)0th belligerents from taking prizes into their ports, it will not be in
your power for the present to send your prizes in for adjudication.
This state of things is winch to be regretted, but it can not be per-

Not found

Page 689

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	689

mitted, of course, to interfere with your right of capture. You will
therefore destroy all the enemys ShipS which fall into your power, dis-
criminating, however, between such as have enemys goods and sach as
have bona fide neutral goods on board. In the fatter cases you will
put the ships under ransom bonds and permit them to depart with their
neutral cargoes, unless, indeed, the latter be contraband of war, in
which case you may destroy both ship and cargo.
	You will pay every respect to a neutral flag wherever you may find
it; and in heaving a ship to bearing this flag, for the purpose of verify-
ing her national character, you will cause her as little delay or molesta-
tion as possible.
	The harbor of St. Catharines [Santa Catharinal, on the coast of
Brazil, will be your first port of rendezvous. You will make the best
of your way to that l)ort and wait a reasonable time for my arrival, say
one week. Should I not arrive within that tinie, you will proceed to
Saldanha Bay, to the northward of the Cape of Good Hope, and there
await me.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
It SEMMES,
Captain, C. S. Navy.
JOHN Low,
Acting Second Lieutenant, )ommandant.



Letter from Captain Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Alabama, to the governor of
the Cape of Good Hope, announcing his arrival in Saldanha Bay.

C. S. S. ALABAMA,
Saldanha Bay, August 1, 1863.
	SIR: An opportunity is offered me by the coasting schooner Atlas to
communicate with the cape, of which I promptly avail myself.
	I have the honor to inform your Excellency that I arrived in this bay
on Wediiesday morning last, for the pnrpose of effecting some necessary
repairs. As soon a~ these repairs can be coml)leted I will l)roceed to
sea, and in the meantime your excellency may rest assnred that I will
pay the strictest attention to the neutrality of your Government.
I have, etc.,
B.	SEMMES.
	Governor Sir P. [B.] WoBEHoUSE.



Report of Captain Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Alabama, of the cruise of that
vessel from Bahia, Brazil, to the Cape of Good Hope, May 12 to August 5, 1863.

C. S. S. ALABAMA,
Table Bay, Cape of Good Hope, August 5, 1863.
	SIR: I had the honor to address the Department last on the 12th of
May, from Bahia, Brazil. I gave you in my dispatch of that date a
r~sum~ of my proceedings since leaving the Areas Islands, on the 5th
of January last.
	Soon after anchoring in Bahia 1 was communicated with by the gov-
ernor in relation to my procee(lings at Fernando de Noronha, and
addressed to him in reply a communication, - of which a copy is enclosed,
* See p. 687.
	N W RvoL II	4

Page 690

690 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

marked A. The governor seemed to be s4tisfied with these explana-
tions, and I was permitted to remain some ten ~ys, during which time
I refitted, provisioned, and coaled my ship. I had expected to meet
here my own coal ship, dispatched from En gland, but she failed to
arrive, and, as I could not await her longer, I appointed her by letter
to meet me at Saldanha Bay as speedily as possible. The C. S. S.
Georgia, Lieutenant Commandant Maury, came into Bahia while I lay
there and coaled also. On the 21st of May I put to sea. The Georgia
was to follow me in twenty-four or thirty-six hours. I exercised no
authority over Captain Maury, but left him free to prosecute his cruise
according to his own jndginent.
	I arrived at this place on the 5th instant, having touched at Saldanha
Bay, and awaited there in vain six (lays for my coal ship. This ship
is now out five months, a~~d I begin to fear either that some accident
has happened to her or that the itiaster has played false. I will look
into Saldanha Bay again, however, iu the course of a couple of weeks.
On my passage hither from Bahia 1 captured the following American
ships, viz, Gilciersteeve, Justina, Jabez Snow, A~m,azoni an, Talisman, Con-
rad Anna F. Schmidt, and Empress. These were all valuable prizes,
except the Justina, and she being a Baltimore bark, in ballast, I ran-
somed her and sent in some prisoners by her. The Conrad being fast
and well adapted for a cruiser, I fitted her out and commissioned her
as a tender to this ship, this being the only form in which I conld
legally, as I appreheiid. l)ut her in couiinission. I placed Acting Lieu-
tenant Low in command of her, and gave him a complement of fifteen
officers an4 men. I put on board of her two brass rifled 12s, which I
had captured on board the Talisman, rifles, pistols, and ammunition,
and provisioned her for three months and directed Lieutenant Low to
cruise in the direction of the Cape of Good Hope, and rendezvous at
the end of his cruise at Saldanha Bay. He had not reached this bay
when I left. The enclosed papers,* marked B and C, are copies of Lieu-
tenant Lows orders and instructions. The new cruiser I have called
the Tuscaloosa. The total number of ships captured to date is fifty-five,
and I estimate the damage done to the enemy at upward of $4,000,000,
to say nothing of the indirect results of my cruise in the way of the
loss of freight, high war insurance, and the numerous sales of &#38; nemys
ships at a sacrifice to put them nader neutral flags.
	On my way from Saldanha Bay hither I fell in with the Tuscaloosa,
which reported to me her having caPtured and bonded on the 31st of
July the American ship Santee, from Akyab to Falmouth, estimated to
be worth $150,000, in which sum the bond was taken. At the entrance
of Table Bay, some 5 or 6 miles distant from the land, I captured the
American bark Sea Bride, put a prize crew on board of her, and sent
her into the offing to await my further orders. I shall probably run
out to-morrow and dispose of her. We have been received here in the
most enthusiastic manner, the whole population turning out to do us
honor, and thronging the ship with visitors for the space of two days.
Needing some repairs which I can not very well effect here, I shall pro-
ceed to Simons Bay for the purpose.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
li.	SE1WMES,
Captain.
	Hon. S. R. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy, Richmond, Va.

See p. 688

Page 691

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE. C91
Ransom bond of the U. S. bark Justina, captured by the C. S. S. Alabama stay 25, 1863.

	Know all men by these presents, that whereas tAte bark Justina, of
Baltimore, Md., nnder my command, was this day captured on the high
seas as prize of war by the C. S. steamer of war Alabama, 1~. Semmes,
coinmander and whereas 1, Charles Miller, acting master of sai(1 bark
as aforesaid, am desirous of ransoming said bark for the benefit of
myself and of the owner thereof, to wit, John M. Bandle, of Baltimore,
Md.: Now, therefore, I, Charles Miller, acting master of said bark as
aforesaid, acting for myself and for the above-named owner, as I am
empowered to do by the laws of nations, for and in consideration of the
release of said bark by the captor, the release whereof is hereby
acknowledged, do acknowledge myself and the aforesaid owner, to wit,
,J ohn M. Bandle, of Baltimore, Md., jointly and severally indebted to
the President of the Confederate States of America, and his successor
and successors in office, in the sum of $7,000, which said sum of $7,000
well and truly to pay nnto the President of the Confederate States of
America, his successor and successors in office, within thirty days after
the conclusion of the present war between the said Confederate States
and the United States, I hereby bind myself and the above-named
owner, jointly and severally and my and his heirs, executors, adinin-
istrators, and assigns. And I do hereby hypothecate the said bark
Justina, her tackle and apparel, for the payment of this bond.
	Done at sea, on board the C. S. S. Alabama, on this the 25th day of
May, in the year of our Lord 1863.
	[SEAL.]	CHARLES MILLER,
		Acting Master.
	Witness:
W.	B. SMITH,
Commanders Clerk.


Ransom bond of the U. S. ship Santee, captured by the C. S. bark Tuscaloosa July 31, 1863.

	Know all men by these presents, that whereas the ship Santee, of
Portsmouth, United States of America, under my command, was this
day captured on the high seas as a prize of war by the C. S. bark of war
Tuscaloosa, John Low commanding; and whereas I, William Parker,
master of said ship as aforesaid, am desirous of ransoming said ship,
t00ether with her freight moneys for the present voyage, for the benefit
of myself and the owners thereof, to wit, Jonathami M. Frederick &#38; Son:
N~w, therefore, I, William Parker, master of said ship as aforesaid,
acting for myself and for the above-miamed owners, as I am empowered to
do by the laws of nations, for and in consideratioim of the release of said
ship by the captor, the release whereof is hereby acknowledged, do
acknowledge myself and the aforesaid owners, Jonatiman M. Frederick
&#38; Son, jointly and severally indebted to the President of the Confed-
erate States of America, and his successor amid successors in office, iii
tl~e snmn of $150,000, well amid truly to pay ummto the President of the
Confederate States of America, his successor amid successors in office,
	thin thirty days after the conclusion ot the present war between the
~aid Confederate States and the United States, 1 hereby bind umyself
:iflfl the above-named owners, to wit, Jonathan M. Frederick &#38; Son,
jointly, severally~ and my and their heirs, executors, admimiistrators, and
assigns. And I hereby hypothecate the said ship Santee, of Portsmnouth,
together with her tackle and apparel, for the payment of this bond

Page 692

6~i2 OPERATIONS OF THE C [IUISERS-----CONFEI IiUVTE.
L)one at sea, on board the C. S. bark Tasealoo~a on
day of July, in the year of our Lord 1863.	the 31st
	[SEAL.]	W1t~L1AM PARKER
Master of Ship Santee.
	Witness:
WILLIAM 11. SINCLAIR,
ill aster, C. S. Navy.


Deposition of the master of the U. S. ship Santee, captured by the C. S. bark Tuscaloosa July

31, 1863.

	Question. Have you any objections to being sworn?
Answer. None.

	Question. What is the name of your vessel?
Answer. Santee.

	Question. What is your own name?
Answer. William Parker.

	Question. Where are you from, and where bound to ~l
Answer. To Falinontli. for orders from Akyab.

	Question. What are you loaded with?
Answer. Rice, entirely.

	Question~ Who are the shippers of your cargo?
Answer. Halliday, Fox &#38; Co.

	Question. Who are the owuers of your cargo, of your own personal
knowledge?
Answer. Halliday, Fox &#38; Co.

	Question. Is the house of Halliday, Fox &#38; Co. in any way connected
with any firm iii the United States of America?
Answer. Not at all; entirely distinct.
WILLIAM PARKER,
Master of Ship Santee.
Witness:
WILLiAM H. SINCLAIII.

	1)one at sea, on board C. S. bark Tuscaloosa, 31st July, 1863.



Letter from Captain Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Alabama, to the governor of the
Cape of Good Hope, announcing his arrival in Table Bay.

[C. S. S.] ALABAMA,
Table Bay, August 5, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to inform your Excellency of iiy arrival in this
bay in the C. S. S. Alabama, under my command. I have come iii for
supplies and repairs, and in the meantime I respectfully ask leave to
land in Cape Town thirty-three prisoners, lately c ptured by me on
1)oard wo of the enemys ships destroyed at sea. The U. S. consul will
doubtless be glad to extend such hospitality and assistance to his dis-
tressed countrymen as is required of him by law.
I have, etc.,
li.	SEMMES.
	Sir P. [E.J WODEHOU$E

Page 693

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	693

Letter from the governor of the Cape of Good Hope to Captain Semmes, C. S. Navy, command-
ing C. S. S. Alabama, regarding privileges desired by the latter in that port.


GOVERNMEN~? HousE,
Cape Town, August 5, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter
announcing your arrival in this port, and to state that I have no objec.
tion to offer to your landing the prisoners now detaii~ed in your ship.
	I have further to beg that you will be ~ood enough to state the nature
and extent of the supl)lies and repairs you require, that I may he
enabled to form some estiniate of the time for which it will be neces-
sary for you to remain in this port.
	I have, etc.,	~. ~. WO~I~IIOU~E.

	Captain SEMMES, C. S. Navy.



Letter from Captain Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Alabama, to the governor of the
Cape of Good Hope, regarding supplies and repairs for that vessel.

[C. S. S.] ALABAMA,
Table Bay, August 5, 1863.
	Siu:	I have had the honor to receive your letter of this days date,
giving me permission to land my l)Iisoners and requesting me to state
the nature of the supplies and repairs which I may require. In the way
of supplies I ~hall need some provisions for my crew, a list of which
will be handed you to-morrow by the paymaster, and, as for repairs,
my boilers need some ironwork to be done and my bends require calk-
iug, being quite opeu. I propose to take on board the necessary
materials here, and to proceed with all dispatch to Simons Bay for the
purpose of making these repairs.
I have, etc.,
li.	SEMMES.
	Sir P. [E.] WODEHOUSE.



Letter from the colonial secretary at Cape Town, Cape of Good Hope, to Captain Semmes, C. 8.
Navy, commanding C. S. S. Alabama, seeking explanation regarding alleged violation of
neutrality.

COLONIAL OFFICE,
Cape Town, August 6, 1863.
	SIR: I am directed by the governor of this colony to acquaint you
that he has received from the consul for the United States at this port
a representation in which he sets forth that an American bark was yes-
terday captured by the ship which you comlnan(l in British waters, in
violation of the neutrality of the British (~overnmeut, and claims from
him redress for the alleged outrage.
	His Excellency will be glad, therefore, to receive from you any
explanation you may wish to give as to the circumstances in which the
capture was effected.
I have, etc.,
L. ADANSON,
For Colonial Secretary.
	Captain SEMMES, C. S. Navy

Page 694

694 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.


Letter from Captain Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Alabama, to the colonial secre-
tary at Cape Town, Cape of Good Hope, regarding alleged illegal seizure by that vessel of
an American bark.

0.	S. S. ALAI3AMA,
Gape Town, August 6, 1863.
	SIR: I have had the honor to receive your communication of this
days date, informing me that the U. S. consul at this port had pre-
sented to his Excellency the governor a representation in which he sets
forth that an American bark was yesterday captured by this ship,
nuder my command, in British waters in violation of the neutrality of
the British Government, and requesting me to make to his Excellency
such representation as I may have to oiThr on this subject.
	In reply, I have the honor to state that it is not true that the bark
referred to was captured in British waters and in violation of British
neutrality, she having been captured outside all headlands, and the
distance from the nearest land of between 5 and G miles. As I
approached this vessel I called the particular attention of my officers
to4he question of distance, and they all agree that the capture was
made from 2 to 3 miles outside of the marine league.
I have, etc.,
R.	SEMMES.
	Mr. ADAMSoN.


Letter from the governor of the Cape of Good Hope to the Duke of Newcastle, relating to occur
rences in connection with the visit of the C. S. S. Alabama to those waters.

[Extract.]

GOVERNMENT HOUSE,
Gape Town, August 19, 1863.
	I beg to take this opportunity of making your Grace acquainted with
what has occurred here in counection with the visit of the (9. S. S.
Alabama.
	On Tuesday, the 4th instant, I received a letter from the commander
of that vessel, dated the 1st of August, at Saldauha Bay, announcing
his having entered that bay with a view of effecting certain repairs,
and stating that he would put tp sea as soon as they were completed,
and would strictly respect our neutrality. When this intelligence was
received, the U. S. consul 6alled on me to seize her, or at any rate to
send her away instantly, but as the vessel which brought the news
reported that the Alabama was coming immediately to Table Bay I
re])lied that I could not seize her, but would take care to enforce the
observance of the neutrality regulations.
	On the next day, about noon, it was reported from the signal station
that the Alabama was steering for Table Bay from the north, and that
a Federal bark was coming in Iroin the westward, and soon after that
the latter had been captured and l)ut about. A little after 2 p. m. the
U. S. consul called to state that he had seen the capture effected within
British waters, when I told him he must make his statement in writing
an(l an investigation should be made. I also, by telegram, immediately
requested the naval commander in chief to send a ship of war from
Simons Bay. The Alabama, leaving her prize outside, anchored in the
bay at .3.30 p. in., when Captain Scuimes wrote to rue that he wanted
supplies and repairs, as well as permission to land thirty-three prison-
ers. After communicating with the U. S. consul I authorized the latter,
and called upon him to state the nature and extent of his wants, tha

Page 695

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	695

I might be enabled to judge of the time he ought to remain in the port.
The same afternoon he promised to send the next morning a list of the
stores needed, and announced his intentiou of pro~eding with al] dis
patch to Simons Bay to effect his repairs there. The iiext morning
(August 6) the paymaster called on me with the merchant who was to
furnish the supplies, and I granted him leave to stay till loon of the 7th.
	On the night of the 5th her Majestys ship Valorous had come round
from Simons Bay. During the night of the 6th the weather became
unfavorable; a vessel was wrecked in the bay, and a heavy sea pre-
vented the Alabama from receiving her supplies by the time airanged.
On the morning of the 8th Captain Forsyth, of the Valorous, and the
port captain, by my desire, pressed on Captain Seinmes the necessity
for his leaving the port without any unnecessary delay, when he pleaded
the continued heavy sea and the absence of his cooking apparatus,
which had been sent on shore for repairs and had iiot been returned
by the tradesman at the time appointed, and intimated his own anxiety
to get away. Between 6 and 7 a. m. on Sunday, the 9th, lie sailed, and
on his way round to Simons Bay captured another vessel, but, on find-
ing that she was in neutral waters, immediately released her.
	In the meantime the U. S. consul had, on the 5th August, addressed
to me a written statement that the Federal bark &#38; ?a Bride had been
taken about 4 miles from the nearest land, and [was] already in Brit-
ish waters, on which I promised immediate enquiry. Time next day
the consul repeated his protest, supporting it by aui affidavit of the
master of the prize, which he held, to show that she hind been takeu
about 2 miles from the land; and the agent for the IJuited States
underwriters,on the same d y, made a similar protest. On the 7th the
consul represented that the prize had on the previous day been brought
within 1 ~ miles of time light-house, which he considered as much a vio-
lation of the neutrality as if she had been there captured, and asked
me to have the prize crew taken out and replaced by one from the Val-
orous, which I declined.
	I had, durimlg this period, been seeking for authentic information as
to the real circumstances of the capture, more particularly with refer-
ence to the actual distance from the shore, and obtained, through the
acting attorney-general, statemnents from the keeper of the Green Point
light-house (this was supported by the collector of customs), from tile
signalman at the station on the Lions lIump, and from an experienced
boatman who was passing between the shore and the vessels at the
time. Captain Forsyth, of the Valorous, also made enquiries of the cap.
tam of the Alabama and of the port captain, and made known the
result to me. And upon all these statements I caine to the conclusion
that the vessels were not less than 4 miles (histant from land; amid on
the 8th. I conmnlunicated to the U. S. consul that the capture could not,
in my opinion, be held to be illegal by reason of the place at which it
was effected.
	In his reply of the 10th the consul endeavored to show how indefen-
sible mny decision must be if, in these days of improved artillery, I rested
it on the fact of the vessels having been only 3 miles from land. This
passage is, I think, of considerable importance as involving an indirect
adniission that they were not within 3 miles at the time of the capture.
And I hope your Grace will concur in my view that it was not niy duty
to go beyond what I found to be the distance clearly established by past
decisions under international law.
An important question has arisen in cominection with the Alabama on
5 practicable, be made
which it is very desirable that I should as soon 

Page 696

696 OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

acquainted with the views of her Majestys Government. Captain
Semmes had mentioned after his arrival in port that he had left outside
one of his prizes previously taken, the Tu8caloosa, ~vhich he had equipped
and fitted as a tender, and had ordered to meet him in ~ Bay, as
she also stood in need of supplies. When this became known to the
naval commander in chief he requested me to furnish him with a legal
opinion, and whether this vessel could be held to be a ship of war
before she had been formally condeinmied in a prize court, or whether
she must miot be held to be still a prize, and as such prohibited from
entering our ports. The acting attorney-general, forniding his opinion
on Earl Russells dispatch to your Grace of the 31st of January, 1862,
and on Wheatons International Law, stated, in substance, that it was
open to Captain Semmes to convert this vessel into a ship of war, and
that she ought to be admitted into our ports on that footing.
	On the 8th of August the vessel entered Simons Bay, and the
admiral wrote that she had two small rifled guns, with a crew of ten
men, and that her cargo of wool was still on board. He was still doubt.
fuil of the propriety of admitting her.
	On the 10th August, after further consultation with the acting
attorney-general, I informed Sir Baldwin Walker that if the guns had
been put on board by the Alabama, or if she had a commission of war,
or if she were commanded by an officer of the Confederate Navy, there
must be held to be a sufficient setting forth as a vessel of war to justify
her admission into port iii that character.
	The admiral replied in the affirmative on the first and last points,
and she was admitted.
	The Tusc7oloosa sailed from Simons Bay on the morning of the 14th
instant, but was becalmed in the vicinity until the following day, when
she sailed about noon. Time Alabama left before noon on the 15th
instant. Neither of these vessels was allowed to remain in port longer
than was really necessary for the cmmpletion of their repairs.
	On the 16th, at noon, the Georgia, another Confederate war steamer,
arrived at Simons Bay in need of repairs, and is still there.
	Before closing this dispatch I wish l)artl(ularly to request instrue.
tions on a point touched on in the letter from the U. S. consul of the
17th instant, viz, the steps which should be taken here in the event of
the oargo of any vessel captured by one of the belligerents being taken
out of the prize at sea and brought into one of our ports in a Britisli or
other neutral vessel.
	Both belligerents are strictly interdicted from bringing their prizes
into British ports by Earl Russells letter to the lords of the admiralty
of the 1st of June, 1861, and I conceive that a colonial government
would be justified in enforcing compliance with that order by any
means at its command, and by the exercise of force, if it should be
reqnired. But that letter refers only to prizes that is I conceive,
to the ships themselvesand makes no mention of the cargoes they may
contain. Practically the prohibition has been taken to extend to the
cargoes, and I gathered from a conversation with Captain Semmes on
tIme subject of our iieutrality regulations that he considered himself
debarred from disposing of them, amid was thus driven to the destruc-
tion of all that he took. But I confess that I am unable to discover by
what legal means I could prevent the introduction into our ports of
captured property purchased at sea and tendered for entry at the
customhouse in the usual form from a neutral ship. I have consulted
time acting attorney-general on the subject, and he is not l)repared to
state that the customs authorities would be justified in making a sei

Page 697

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	697

nrc under such circumstances, and, therefore, as there is great proba-
bility of clandestine attempts being made to introduce cargoes of this
description, I shall be glad to be favored with the ~arliest practicable
intimation of the views of her Majestys Government on the subject.
	I have, etc.,	[P. E. WOPEHOUSE.]

[His Grace the DUKE OF NEWCASTLE.]



Letter from Rear..Admiral Walker, B. N., to the secretary of the British admiralty, relating to
occurrences in connection with the presence of the C. S. S. Alabama and other Confederate
vessels at the Cape of Good Hope.

[H. B. iVI. S.] NARCISsUS,
~S~imons Bay, August 19, 1863.
	SIR:	I beg you will be pleased to acquaint my lords commissioners
of the admiralty with the following particulars relative to the proceed-
ings of the C. S. ships of war Alabama, her reported tender, Tusca-
loosa, and the Georgia, which have recently arrived at the Cape of
Good Hope.
	2.	On the 28th of July an English schooner arrived in Table Bay
and reported that on the previous day she had been boarded by the
C. S. S. Alabama 15 miles northwest of Green Point [Africa]. After
some enquiries the Alabama left her, steering southeast.
	3.	Upon the receipt of this intelligence 1 ordered Captain [C. C.]
Forsyth, of the Valorous, to hold himself in readiness to proceed to
any of the ports in this colony where the Alabama might anchor, in
order to preserve the rules of strict neutrality.
	4.	By a letter addressed to the governor of this colony by Captaiu
Seunnes, copy of which was telegraphed to me on the 4th instant, it
appears that the Alabama had proceeded to Saldanha Bay for a few
days, anchoring there on the 29th of July.
	o.	On the 5th instant I received a private telegram to the effect that
the Alabama was off Table Bay, when I directed the Valorous immedi-
ately to proceed to that anchorage; and shortly afterwards a telegram
reached me from the governor stating that the Alabama had captured
a vessel (American) which was in sight [of] and steering for Table Bay.
The Valorous reached that bay at 10:15 p. In., where the Alabama had
anchored at 3 oclock in the afternoon of the same day.
	6.	Captain Forsyth having informed me that the tender to the
Alabama had been ordered by Captain Semines to Simons Bay for
provisions, and havimmg learned that timis vessel had been captured off
the coast of Brazil and not been condemned in any prize court, I had
doubts as to the legality of considering her in the light of a tender,
being under the impression that it was a ruse to disguise the real char-
acter of the vessel. I therefore wrote to the governor to obtain the
opinion of the attorney-general of the colony upon this subject, which
correspondence is emmclosed.
	7.	On the 8th of August the tender Tuscaloosa, a sailing bark,
arrived in Simons Bay, and the boarding officer having reported to me
that he~ original cargo of wool was still on board, I felt that there were
grounds for doubting her real character, and again called the governors
attention to this circumstance. My letter and his reply are annexed.
And I would Imere beg to submit to their lordships notice that this
power of a captain of a ship of war to comm stitute every prize he may
take a tender appears to me to be likely to lead to abuse and evasio

Page 698

698 oflia.i mu or ThE oarnsnasoon!EDmfl.

of the laws of strict neutrality, by being used as a means Air bringing
prizes into neutral ports for disposal of their cargoes, and secret
arrangements, which arrangements, it must be seen, could afterwards
be easily carried out at isolated places.
	&#38; The Alabama, after lying three days in Table Bay, came to this
anchorage to calk and refit. She arrived here on the 9th and sailed
again on the 15th instant Captain Semmes was guarded in his con-
duct, and expressed himself as most anxious not to violate the neu-
trality of these waters.
	9.	I should observe that, from the enclosed copy of a letter from
Captain Forsyth to the governor, it would appear that the vessel Ste
Bride, taken by the Alabama oft Table Bay, was beyond the jurisdic-
tion of neutral territory.
	10.	During his to this port Captain Semmes chased another
Mnerican vessel, the arMs Wen4 standing in Air Table Bay. On
my pointing out to hun that he had done so in neutral waters, he assured
me that it was quits unintentional, and, being at a distance from the
land, he did not observe that he had got within 3 miles of an Imaginary
line drawn from the Cape of Good Ho~ to Cape Hanglip, but on ds-
coveringit he did not detain the vesseL This explanation I considered
sufficient
	11.	The tender fLWculooes, having been detained by a strong south-
easter, got underway Air the purpose of going to sea on the 14th
instant, but anchored again a little distance from the Roman Rocks
light-house in consequence of thick fog prevailing.
	fl The Alabama did  not take in any coal, either here or at Table
Bay, but after being calked she proceeded to sea on the 15th instant,
followed by the Tuscaloosa. Their destinations are unknown.
	it On the 18th instant the C.B.S. Georgia, Conander Maury,.
anchored in this bay She requires coal, provisions, and calking. This
vessel did not meet the Alabama outside.
	It The florida, another Conrederate States steamer, is reported to
be off this coast, probably cruising to intercept the homeward-bond
American ships from China; indeed, it is with that object these ships
are on this part of the station.
	15.	1 have learned since the departure of the Alabama and her
so-called tender that overtures were made by some parties in Cape
Ton to purchase the cargo of wool, but, being unsatisfactory, they
were not accepted. It is reported to ~e Captain Semmess intention to
destroy the Tuscaloosa at sea.
	16.	The Alabama ii a steamer of about 900 tons, with 8 guns and
150 men. The Georgia is an iron steamer of about 700 tons, with 5
guns and 110 men. The Tuscaloosa is a sailing bark of 500 tons, hay-
mg 2 qmall guns and 10 men.
	I have, eta,	B. W. WALnE,
	Bear-Admir4 B. L
The SnonTaY 01 Tn BriTisH ADxman.


[H. B. N. ~1 ViLobous,
Table Bag, August (4 1868.
	Sm; Ihave the honor to report my arrival here at 10:15p.m.last
evening, and found the V. S. S. Alabama had anchored at 8 p. m.
previously

Page 699

	OPERATIONS OP THE ORUISflBCONFEDERATE.	699

	This morning I put myself in communication with the commander of
that vessel, and he informs me he intends leaving this anchorage at
daylight to-morrow, or as soon as he has provislouql, and he proceeds
to Simons Bay for repairs. He also informed me he had a tender,
which he left cruising outside, and had ordered her to Simons Bay,
there to procure provisions.
	On my visiting his Excellency the governor he requested I would
remain here a few days, provided you had no objection, In case of the
arrival of the Confederate vessel Flerida~ which is expected.
	I have, etc.,.	CHn~s C. FoRsYTH.

	Raar.Admiral Sir B. [W.] Wans.



[H. B. K. S.] VALOROUS,
Table Bag, Input 6,1868.
	But: In eompliance with the request conveyed to me by your Excel-
lency, 1 have the honor to report that I have obtained from Captain
Semmes a statement of the positions of the C.B.S. Alabqs. and the
American bark Sea Bride when the latter was captured yesterday
afternoon.
	Captain Semmes asserts that at the time of his capturing the Sea
Bride Green Point llght~house bore from the Alabama southeast, about
6 or 6~ miles.
	This stateipent is borne out by the evidence of Captain Wilson, port
captain of Table Bay, who has assured me that at the time of the Sea
Bride being captured he was off Green Point in the port boat, and that
only the top of the Alabamas hull was visible.
	I am of opinion that, if Captain Wilson could only see that portion
of the hull of the Alabama, she must have been about the distance
from the shore which is stated by Captain Semmes, and I have there.
fore come to the conelusion that the Sea Bride was beyond the limits
assigned when she was captured by the Alabama
	I have, etc.,	CnnLus C. FoRsYTH.
	Sir P. jE.] WODEHOUSE.



[H. B. K. S.] Naoissus,
Simon. Bag, Angst 7,1865.
	Sn: Captain Forsyth having informed me that the Alabama has a
tender.outside, captured by Captain Semmes on the coast of America.
and commissioned by one of the Alabamas lieutenants, and as this
vessel has been ordered into Simons Bay for provisions, may I request
your Excellency will be good enough to obtain the opinion of the law
officers whether this vessel ought still to be looked upon in the light of
a prize, she never having been condemned in a prize court; theinstruc-
tons, copy of which I enclose, strictly forbidding prizes captured by
either of the contending parties in North America being admitted into
ourports?
	I have, ~	B. ~. Wana.

	Governor Sir P. [E.J Wonxouifl

Page 700

700 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

[Subenclosure.]

Extract from Wheatons Elements of international Law, Vol. II, p. 88.

	The title to property lawfully taken in war may, npon general princi-
ples, be considered as immediately divested from the original owner and
transferred to the captor. This general principle is modified by the posi-
tive law of nations in its application both to personal and real property.
As to personal propcrty or movables, the title is, in general, considered
as lost to the former proprietor as soon as the emiciny has acquired a
firm possession, which, as a general rule, is consi(Iered as taking place
after the lapse of twenty-four hours. The established usage of mari-
time nations has excepted froiu the operation of t.his rule the case of
ships and goods captured at sea, the original title to which is not gen-
erally considered as completely (liveste(l ii n til carried infra prwsidia,
and regularly condemned in a competent court of prize.


GOVERNMENT HOUSE,
Cape Town, August 8, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excel-
lencys letter of yesterdays date and to enclose the copy of an opinion
given by the acting attorney-general to the effect that the vessel to
which you refer ought to be regarded as a tender and not as a prize.
	I shall take care to stibniit this question to her Majestys Government
by the next mail, but in time meantime I conclude that your Excellency
will be prepared to act on the opiniomi of the attorney-general in
respect to any vessels which may enter these ports in the character of
l)rizes converted into ships of war by the officers of the navy of the
Confederate States.
I have, etc.,
P.	E. WODEHOUSE.
Rear-Admiral Sir B. [W.] WALKER.

[5ubenciosure.]

Extracts from Wheatons Elements of International Law.

	What constitutes a setting forth as a vessel of war has been deter-
mined by the British courts of prize iii cases arising under the clause in
the act of Parliament, which may serve for the interpretation oC our own
law, as the provisions are the same in both. Thus, it has been settled
that where a ship was originally armed for the slave trade, and after
capture an additional number of men were put on board, but there was
no commission of war and no additional arming, it was not a setting
forth as a vessel of war under the act. Rut a commission of war is
decisive if there be guns on board, amid where the vessel, after the
capture, has been fitted out as a privateer, it is conclusive against her,
although, when captured, she is navigating as a mere merchant ship;
for where the former character of a captured vessel had been obliter-
ated by her conversion immto a ship of war the legislature meant to look
no further, but considered tIme title of the former owner forever extin-
guished. Where it appeared thab the vessel had been engage(l iii a
military service of the enemy, under the direction of his mhmister of the
marine, it was held as a sufficient l)roof of a setting forth as a vessel
of war; so where the vessel is armed and is employed in time public
military service of the enemy by those who have competent authority
so to employ it, although it be not regularly commissioned. l3nt the
mere employment in the enemys military service is not sufficient; bu

Page 701

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	701.

if there be a fair semblance of authority in the person directing the
vessel to be so employed, and nothing upon the face of the proceedings
to invalidate it, the court will presume that he is d~ily authorized; and
the commander of a single ship may be presumed to be vested with
this authority as commander of a squadron.



[H. B. N. S.] NARCISSUS,
Simons Bay, August 8, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excel-
lencys letter of this days date, covering the written opinion of the
acting attorney-general of this colony as to the legality of the so-called
tender to the C. S. arnied ship Alabama, and for which I beg to express
my thanks.
	The vessel in question, now called the Tuscaloosa, arrived here this
evening, and the boarding officer from my flagship obtained the follow-
ing information:
	That she is a bark of ~OO tons, with two small rifled 12-pounder guns
and ten men, and was captured by the Alabama on the 21st June last,
off the coast of Brazilcargo of wool still on board.
	The admission of this vessel into port will, I fear, open the door for
numbers of vessels captured nuder similar circumstances, being denomi-
nated tenders, with a view to avoid the prohibition contained in the
Queens instructions; and I would observe that the vessel Sea Bride,
captured by the Alabama off Table Bay a few days since, or all other
prizes, might be in like manner styled tenders, making the prohibition
entirely null and void.
	I apprehend that to bring a captured vessel under the denomination
of a vessel of war she must be fitted for warlike purposes, and not
merely have a few men and two small guns put on board her (in fact,
nothing but a prize crew) in order to disguise her real character as a
prize.
	Now, this vessel has her original cargo of wool still on board, which
can not be required for warlike purposes, and her armament and the
number of her crew are quite insufficient for any services other than
those of slight defense.
	Viewing all the circumstances of the case, they afford room for the
supposition that the vessel is styled a tender with the object of
avoiding the prohibition against her entrance as a prize into our ports,
where, if the captors wished, arrangements could be made for the dis-
posal of her valuable cargo, the transshipment of which, your Excel-
lency will not fail to see, might be readily effected on any part of the
coast beyond the limits of this colony.
	My sole object in calling your Excellencys attention to the case is
to avoid ammy breach of strict neutrality.
I have, etc.,
B.	W. WALKER.
	Sir P. [E.] WODEHOUSE.



GOVERNMENT HOUSE,
Gape Touu, August 10, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excel-
lencys letter of the 8th instant, on which I have consulted the acting
attorney-general

Page 702

702 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	The information given respecting the actual condition of the Tusca-
loosa is somewhat defective, but referring to the extract from Wheaton,
transmitted in my last letter, the attorney-general is of opinion that if
the vessel received the two guns from the Alabama or other (ionfeder-
ate vessel of war, or it the person in counuand of her has a commission
of war, or if she be coLnman(led by an officer of the Confederate Navy
in any of these cases there will be a sufficient setting forth as a vessel
of war to justify her being held to be a ship of war. If all of these
points be decided in the negative, she must be held to be only a prize
and ordered to leave forthwith.
I have, etc.,
P.	B. WOPEHOUSE.
	Itear-Admiral Sir B. [W.] WALKER.



[H. B. M. S.] NARCISSUS,
Simons Bay, Auyust 11, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excel-
lencys letter, dated yesterday, respecting the Confederate bark Tusca-
loosa, now in this bay.
	As there are two guns on board and an officer of the Alabama in
charge of her, the vessel appears to come wfthiu the meaning of the
cases cited in your above-mentioned communication.
I have, etc.,
B.	W. WALKER.
	Sir P. [B.] WODEHOIJSE.


Letter from Rear-Admiral Walker, R. N., to the secretary of the British admiralty, on the
subject of the C. S. S. Alabama and her prizes.

[II. B. M. S.] NARCISSUS,
Simons Bay, September 17, 1863.
	SIR: With reference to my letters, dated respectively the 19th and
31st ultiino, relative to the C. S. ship of war Alabama and the prizes cap-
tured by her, I beg to enclose for their lordships information the copy
of a statement forwarded to me by th~ collector of customs at Cape
Town, wherein it is represeiited that the Tuscaloosa and Sea Bride had
visited Ichaboc, which is a (lepeudency of this colony.
	2. Since the receipt of the above-mentioned document the Alabama
arrived at this anchorage (the 16th instant), arid when Captaiii Semines
waited upon me I acquainted him of the report, requesting lie would
inform me if it were true. I was glad to learn from him that it was
not so. lIe frankly explained that the prize Sea Bride, in the first
place, had put into Saldanha Bay through stress of weather, and on
being joined there by the Tuscaloosa both vessels proceeded to Angra
Pequeha, ~n the west co:ist of Africa, where lie subsequently joined
theni in the Alabama and there sold the Sea Bride and her cargo to an
English subject who resides at Cape Town. The Tuscaloosa had landed
some wool at Angra Pequehia and received ballast, but lie states is still
in commission as a tender. It will therefore be seemi how erroneous is
the accompanying report. I have no reason to doubt Captain Semmess
explanation; he seems to be fully alive to the imistructions of her Maj-
estys Government, an(l appears to be most anxious not to commit any
breach of neutrality

Page 703

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	703

	3. The Alabama has returned to this port for coal, some provisions,
and to repair her condensii~g apparatus.
	4. From conversation with Captain Semmes, I find that he has been
off this cape for the last five days, and as the Vanderbilt left this [place]
on the night of the 11th instant it is surprising they did not see each
other.
I have,etc.,
B.	W. WALKER.
	The SECRETARY OF THE ADMIRALTY.

[Enclosure.]

CUSTOM-HOUSE,
Gape Town, September 15, 1863.
(Information received September 11, 1863.)
	On the 3d [23d?] August the Sea Bride, now hailing from Hamburg,
together with the Tuscaloosa, sailed from Iehaboe. The Sea Bride hav-
ing la~ided part of her cargo and filled up with guano, both vessels were
remanned from the working party on the islands and the former crews
landed.
	Captain Iceton, of the Plower (f Yarrow, piloted the Alabama into
the lagoon, or, as it is called, ~alvidea Bay, 30 to 40 miles north of
Ichaboc, where she landed some cargo.
	The Isabella, schooner, of Cape Town, took on board part of the Sea
Brides cargo, con.~isting of tobacco, flour, beef; and pork.
	The Tuscaloosa landed her cargo at Angra Pequefla, and was bal-
lasted and refftted there.
	The Sea Bride and Tuscaloosa are supposed to have sailed for
Manritins.
	The above information was yesterday confirmed by the arrival of the
Gem, from Angra Pequeiia.
	Captain Johnson, formerly of the Albatross, commands the Sea Bride
and Mr. Cloete the Tuscaloosa.


Letter from the Duke of Newcastle to the governor of the Cape of Good Hope, stating the

views of her Majestys Government regarding the C. S. S. Alabama and her prizes.

DOWNING STREET, November 4, 1863.
	SIR: I have received your dispatch of tbe 19th August last, sub.
mitting for my consideration various questions arising out of the pro-
ce dings at the Cape of Goo(l Hope of the Confederate vessels Georgia,
Alabama, and her repute(l tender, the Tuscaloosa.
	I will. now proceed to convey to you the views of her Majesty~s
Government on these questions.
	The capture of the Sea Bride by the Alabama is stated to have been
effected beyond the distance of 3 mnile.~ from the shore, which distance
must be accepted as the limit of territorial jurisdiction according to the
l)resent rule of international law nuon that subject. It appears, how-
ever, that the prize, very soon after 11cr cal)ture, was brought within the
distance of 2 miles from -the shore, amid, as this is contrary to her
Majestys orders, it might have afforded just grounds (if the apology
of Captain Semmes for this improper act, which he ascribed to mad-
vertence, had not been accepted by yon) for the interference of the
colonial authorities upon the principles which I am about to explain.
	With respect to the Alabama herself; it is clear that neither you nor
any other authority at the cape could. exercise any jurisdiction ove

Page 704

704 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

her, and that, whatever may have been her previous history, you were
bound to treat her as a ship of war belonging to a belligerent power.
	With regard to the vessel called the Tuscah~sa, I am advised that
this vessel did not lose the character of a prize captured by the Ala-
bama merely because she was, at the time of her being brought within
British waters, armed with two small rifled guns, in charge of an
officer and manned with a crew of ten men from the Alabama, and used
as a tender to that vessel nuder the authority of (faptain Semmes.
	It would appear that the Tuscaloosa is a hark of 500 tons, captured
by the Alabama off the coast of Brazil on the 21st of Jumie last, and
brought into Simons Bay on or before the 7th of August, with her
original cargo of wool (itself, as well as the vessel, prize) still on board,
and with nothing to give her a warlike character (so far as is stated
in the papers before me) except the circumstances already noticed.
	Whether, in the case of a vessel duly commissioi~cd as a ship of war,
after being made prize by a belligerent govermnent without being first
brought infra prwsidia or condemned by a court of prize, the character
of prize, within the meaning of her Majestys orders, would or would
not be merged in that of a national ship of war, I am not called 111)011
to explain. It is enough to say that the citation from Mr. Wheatons
book by your attorney-general does not appear to me to have any
direct bearing upon the question.
	Connected with this subject is the question as to the cargoes of cap-
tured vessels, which is alluded to at the end of your dispatch. On this
point I have to instruct you that her Majestys orders apply as munch
to prize cargoes of every kimid which may be brought by any armed
ships or privateers of either belligerent into British waters as to the
captured vessels themselves. They do not, however, apply to any
articles which may have formed part of any such cargoes, if brought
within British jurisdiction, not by armed ships or privateers of either
belligerent, but by other persons who may have acquired or may claim
property in them by reason of any dealings with the captors.
	I think it right to observe that the third reason alleged by the attor-
ney-general for his opinion assumes (though the fact had not been
made the subject of any enquiry) that, no means existed for determin-
ing whether the ship had or had not been judicially condemned in a
court of competent jurisdiction, and the proposition that, admitting
her to have beemi captured by a ship of war of the Confederate States,
she was entitled to refer her M~jestys Government, in case of any dis-
pute, to the court of her States in order to satisf,y it as to her real char-
acter. This assumption, however is not consistent with her Majesty~s
undoubted right to determine within her own territory whether her
own orders, made in vindication of her own neutrality, have been violated
or not.
	The question remains: What course ought to have beemi taken by the
authorities of the cape ~
	First. In order to ascertain whether this vessel was, as alleged by
the U. S. consul, an uncondemned prize, brought within British waters
in violation of her Majestys neutrality; and
	Secondly. What ought to have been done if such had appeared to
be really the fact.
	I think that the allegations of the U. S. consul ought to have been
brought to the knowledge of Captain Semmes while the Tuscaloosa
was still within British waters, and that he should have been requested
to state whether he did or did not admit the facts to be as alleged, He
should also have been called upon (unless the facts were admitted) to
produce the Thscaloosas papers. If the result of these enquiries ha

Page 705

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	705

been to prove that the vessel was really an uncondemned prize, brought
into British waters in violation of her Majestys orders made ftr the
purpose of maintaining her neutrality, I consider that the mode of pro-
ceeding in such circumstances, most consistent with her Majestys
dignity and most proper for the vindication of her territorial rights,
would have been to prohibit the exercise of any further control over
the Tuscaloosa by the captors, and to retain that vessel under her
Majestys control and jurisdiction until properly reclaimed by her origi-
nal owners.
I have, etc.,
NEWCASTLE.
Sir P. [E.] WODEHOUSE.


Letter from the governor of the Cape of Good Hope to the Duke of Newcastle, regarding legal
questions involved in the matter of C. S. S. Alabama and her prizes.

GOVEUNMENT lousE,
Cape Town, December 19, 1863.
	M~ LORD DUKE: I have had the honor to receive your Graces dis-
patch of the 4th ultimo, from which I regret to learn that the course
taken here relative to the Confederate war steamer Alabama and her
prize has not in some respects given satisfaction to her Majestys
Government.
	I must only beg your Grace to believe that no pains were spared by
time late acting attorney-general or by myself to shape our course in
what we believed to be conforumity with the orders of her Majestys
Government and the rules of international law, as far as we could
ascertain and interpret them.
	1~Ir. Denyssen has been so constantly engaged with professional
business since the arrival of the mail that I have been prevented from
discussing with him the contents of your dispatch, but I think it right,
nevertheless, to take advantage of the first opportunity for represent-
ing to your Grace the state of uncertainty in which 1 am placed by the
receipt of this communication, and for soliciting such further explana-
tions as may prevent my again falling into error on these matters. In
so doing I trust you will be prepared to make allowance for the diffi-
culties which must arise out of this peculiar contest, in respect of
which both parties stand on a footing of equality as belligerents, while
only one of them is recognized as a nation.
	In the first place, I infer that I have given can~e for dissatisfaction
in not having more actively resented the fact that tlie AS~ea Bride, on the
day after her capture, was brought a short distance within British
waters.
	Your Grace demurs to my having accepted Captain Semmess
apology for this improper act, which he ascribed to inadvertence. You
will pardon my noticing that the fact of the act having been done
through inadvertence wa~ established by the U. S. consul himself, one
of whose witnesses stated, The officer in command of the bark came
on deck about that time, and, stamping his foot as if chagrined to fiuid
her so near the land, ordered her farther off, which was done immedi-
ately.~~ I confess that on such evidence of such a fact 1 did not con-
sider myself warranted in requiring the commander of her Majestys
ship Valorous to take possession of the Alabamas prize.
	The questions involved in the treatment of the Tuscaloosa are far
more important and moVe embarrassing; and first let me state, with
	N W UVOL II	4

Page 706

706 OPERATIONS OF TEE oEUISnSCoNFEDEEATE.

reference to the suggestion that Captain Semmes should have been
required to admit or deny the allegations of the U. S. consul, that no
such proceedingwas required. There was not theslightest mystery or
concealment of the circumstances underwhich the TvecuJooae had come
into and then was In the possession of the Confederates. The facts
were not disputed. We were required to declare what.was her actual
status under those facts. We had recourse to Wheaton, the best
authority on international law within our reachan authority of the
nation with whom the question had arisen; an authority which the
British secretaryfor foreign affairs had recently been quoting in debates
on American questions in the House of Lords.
Your Grace intimates that the citation from this authority by the
acting attorney-general does not appear to have any direct bearing
upon the question. You will assuredly believe that it is not from any
want of respect for your opinion, but solely from a desire to avoid future
error, that I confess my inability to understand this intimation, or, in
the absence of instructions on that head, to seein what direction I am
to look forthe law bearing on the subject.
The paragraph cited made no distinction betweenavessel with cargo
and a vessel without cargo~ and your Grace leaves me in ignorance
whether her character would have been changed if Captain Semmes
had got rid of the cargo before claiming for her admission asaship
of war. Certainly, acts had been done by him which, according to
Wheaton constituted a setting forth as a vessel of war.
	rour drace likewise states, Whether, in the case of a vessel duly
commissione4 as a ship of war, after being made prize by a belligerent
government without being first brought isfta r.ME or condemned
by a court of prize, the character of prize, within the meaning of her
Ma~jestys orders, would or would not be merged In [that ofj a national
ship of war, I am not called upon to explain.
	I feel myself forced to ask for further advice on this point, on which
it is quite possible I maybe called upon to take an active part. I have
already in erro; apparently, admitted a Confederate prize as a ship of
war. !I5he chief authority on International law in which it is in my
power to refer is Wheaton, who apparently draws no distinction between
ships of war and other ships when found in the position of prizes, and
I wish your Grace to be aware that within the last few days the com-
mander of a United States ship of war observed to me that if it were
his good fortune to capture the Ak*ama he should convert her into a
Federal cruiser.
	I trust your Grace will see how desirable it is that I should be hilly
informed of the views of her M&#38; j s Government on these points,
and th~t I shall be favored with ai?iZrto this dispatch at your earliest
convemence.
I have, etc.,
P. E. WoDnousa.
	His Grace the Dun ow SuwoisTLE.


bpS at tpbh Iu.au, a t laq, a tt Alabmam, elsS usA inap~u.
.aA. by that vernal barn Uqpt.rnbar lit. bombs 33, 1663.
C. 5.5. ALaaxh,
Singapore, December *9, 1868.
	Sn: I wrote to the Department last on the l9th of September from
Simons Town, Cape of Go6d Hope, by way of England, enclosing my

Dhspatoh of September19 not found

Page 707

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	707

letter to Fraser, Trenhoim &#38; Co., of Liverpool, to be forwarded. Hav-
ing completed coaling and provisioning my ship on ~he 23d of the same
month, I sailed the next day for the East Indies. Having got an offing
from the cape, I ran up lily longitude in about the parallel of 390, with
the wind almost constantly from the northward a iid westward, and
fresh, varied by a few calms and one or two gales. I passed the island
of St. Paul on the 12th of October, ai~d on the 22d lost the west winds
in the calm belt of the southern tropic, having made a run of 4,410
miles in twenty-four and three-fourths daysa very satisfactory run for
a steamer under sail alone. The rough tumbling that my ship got in
this passage caused her to complain somewhat, and even to make a lit-
tle more water than usual, and in one of the gales a quarter boat was
swept from the davits. We saw but three sail in this passagea her-
maphrodite brig and an English ship neai the Cape of Good Hope, and
midway between the cape and St. Paul an English steamer. The two
latter I spoke and boarded. I arrived in the vicinity of the Strait of
Sunda on the 26th of October, on which day I boarded an English ship
a couple of days out of the strait. I learned by this ship that the
enemys steamer Wyoming, accompanied by a three-masted schooner, was
cruising in the strait. I remained on the outside of the strait several
days, chasing and overhauling a good many vessels, but not falling in
with any of the enemy until the 6th of November, when I captured and
burned the bark Amanda, of l3angor, Me., from Manila for Queenstown,
Ireland, for orders, and laden with a valuable cargo of hemp and sugar.
On the 8th November I ran into the strait and anchored under Flat
Point, where I remained twenty-four hours. I then get up steam and
ran through the strait, seeing nothing of the enemys steamer or the
schooner reported to be in her company. Just at nightfall, and an hour
or two after I had entered the Java Sea, I overhauled and captured the
enemys ship Winged Racer. This was a large and valuable clipper,
also from Manila, and laden with hemp an(l sugar, and bound for New
York.
	I burned her, having previously anchored near North Islands for the
purpose of taking from the prize such articles of provisions, etc., as I
needed. I landed the prisoners of the Amanda and Winged Racer in
the boats of the latter ship, at their own request, it being their inten-
tion to proceed to Batavia, the nearest civilized port. Getting under-
way on the morning of the 11th, I ran up in the direction of the Carimata
Passage, and on the same evening I captured the clipper ship Contest,
of New York, from Yokohama, in Japan, bound for New York. This
ship gave me quite a chase, as she was very fast and there was a fine
breeze blowing. It required the aid of both steam and sail to overhaul
her. She had a valuable cargo of rap and teas, etc. I burned her. I
had a tedious passage of several days through the Carimnata Strait,
under sail, my coal running short, and while anchored off the island of
Sourouton fSerutu], on the 19th of November, I boarded an English
bark from Singapore for London, which consented to take the prisoners
of the Contest. I now made my way a short distance up the northwest
coast of Borneo, being obliged to steam a part of the way, and after
some days of baffling light airs, calms, and currents, I crossed to the
island of Condore, on the coast of Cochin China, in possession of the
French, and as my ship required overhauling and repairing, and my
crew needed the refreshment and quiet of port, I remained here twelve
days. Sailing hence on the 15th, I reached Singapore on the afternoon
of the 21st, having cruised a couple of days without falling in with any
vessels of the enemy, and having touched at the island of Aor. The
enemys East India and China trade is nearly broken np. Their ship

Page 708

708 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

find it impossible to get freights, there being in this port some nineteen
sail, almost all of which are laid up for want of employment. I do not
think it desirable, therefore, to remain longer in these seas, as the
chances of capture would be very few, and it being in fact of but little
importance in what particular track o C commerce we pick up the enemys
ships, the main point being to pick np as many as possible. Perhaps
the more widely apart our blows are struck, provided they are struck
rapidly, the greater will be the consternation and consequent damage
of the enemy.
	Enclosed please find a list of the officers at present on board of the
Alabama.
	I have the honor to be, very respectfully, your obedieiit servant,
It. SEMMES,
Captain.
	lion. S. It. MALLORY,
Secretary of the Navy, Richmond, Va.

Letter from Rear-Admiral Walker, 3. N., to the secretary of the British admiralty, transmit-
ting correspondence regarding the C. S. bark Tuscaloosa, tender to the C. S. S. Alabama.

[II. B. M. S.j NARCISSUS,
Simons Bay, January 5, 1864.
	SIR: I request you will be pleased to acquaint my lords commission-
ers of the admiralty that the bark called the Tuscaloosa, under the flag
of the Conf~derate States of North America (referred to in my letter of
the 19th August last), termed a tender to the Alabama, returned to
this anchorage on the 26th ultimo from cruising off the coast of Brazil.
	2.	In order to ascertain the real character of this vessel, I directed
the boarding officer from my flagship to put the questions, as per enclos-
ure No. 1, to the officer in command, Lieutenant Low, of the Alabama,
and having satisfied myself from his answers that the vessel was still
an uncondemned prize captured by the Alabama under the name of
the Conrad, of Philadelphia, I communicated the circumstances to the
governor of this colony, who, concurriug in opinion with me that she
ought to be retained under her Majestys control and jurisdiction until
r&#38; laimed by her proper owners for violation of her Majestys orders
for the maintenance of her neutrality, I caused the so-called Tuscaloosa
to be taken possession of, informing Lieutenant Low at the same time
of the reason for doing so.
	3.	Lieutenant Low has entered a written protest against the seizure
of the vessel, the copy of which, together with the reply of the gov-
ernor, I enclose for their lordships information, as well a copy of all the
correspondence which has passed on this subject.
	4.	Lieutenant Low, having informed me that he expects the Alabama
shortly to arrivd at this place, I have allowed him and his crew to remain
on board the Conrad for the present; but should the Alabama not
make her appearance, I have acquainted him that I will grant him and
his officers (probably only one besides himself) a passage to England in
one of the packets. The crew he wishes to discharge, if there is no
opportunity of their rejoining the Alabama.
	5.	The vessel in question is at present moored in this bay in charge
of an officer and a few men belonging to II. B. M. S. Narcissus, where she
will remain until she can be properly transferred to her lawful owners,
as requested by the governor.
	I have, etc.,	B. W. WALKER,

SECRETARY OF THE AIXIIIRALTY

Page 709

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	709

[Endosures.]

Questions to be put to the officer in command or charge of the bark T~escaloosa, carrying

the flag of the so-ca fled Confederate States of 4merica.

	Ships name and nationl

	Tu8caloosa, Confederate.

	Name and rank of officer in command~

	Lieutenant Low, late Alabama.

	Tonnage of the ship ~

	Five hundred.

	Number of officers and men on board ~

	Four officers and twenty men.

	Number and description of guns on board ~

	Three small brass guns, 2 rifled 12-pounders, and 1 smooth-bore [12]-pounder.

	Where is she from ~

	St. Katherines [Santa Catharina], Brazil.

	Where is she bound?

	Crnising.

	For what purpose has the ship put into this port?

	For repairs and supplies.

	Is it the same ship that was captured by the Alabama, and afterwards
came to thisport on the 9th of August last?

	Yes.

	What was her original name on being captured by the Alabama?

	Conrad, of Philadelphia.

	When was she captured by the Alabama?

	June 21, 1863.

	To what nation and to whom did she belong before her capture?

	Federal States of America.

	Has she been taken before any legally constituted admiralty court of
the Confederate States?

No.

	Has she been duly condemned as a lawful prize by such court to the
captors?

No.

	What is she now designated?

	Tender to the Alabcrna.

	What papers are there on board to constitute her as the Confederate
bark Tuscaloosa?

	The commission of the lieutenant commanding the Tuscaloosa from Captain
Semmes. The officers also have commissions to their ship from him.

	Are the papers which belonged to her before she was seized by the
Alabama on board?

	No

Page 710

710 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Is there any cargo on board, and what does it consist of~

No cargo; only stores for ballast.
JOHN Low,
Lieutenant, Commanding C. S. Bark Tuscaloosa.
	FRANciS L. Woon,
Lieutenant and Boarding Officer, if. B. ]IL S. Narcissus.


[H. B. M. S.] NARCISSUS,
Simons Bay, December 26, 1868.
	SIR: In consequence of the arrival of the Tuscaloosa (the vessel cap-
tured by the C. S. ship of war Alabama on the 21st June last), having
again returned to this anchorage this evening, I called upon the officer
in command to answer the enclosed questions, which, together with the
replies, I forward for your Excellencys information.
	As it appears that this vessel, the Tuscaloosa, late Federal ship Con-
rad, is an uncondemned prize, brought into British waters in violation
of her Majestys orders made for the purpose of maintaining her neu-
trality, I therefore consider that she ought to be detained, with the view
of her being reclaimed by her original owners, in accordance with the
opinion of the law officers of the Crown forwarded for my guidance,
the copy of which I have already transmitted to you.
I have, etc.,
B.	W. WALKER.
Sir P. [E.] WOBEJIOUSE.


CLAREMONT [CAPE OF GOOD HOPE],
December 27, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excel-
lencys letter of yesterdays date, and to state that, after careful consid-
eration of the instructions received by the last mail from her Majestys
Government, and of the view taken by them of our former proceedings
with respect to the Tuscaloosa, I concur in your opinion that it will be
proper to retain that vessel under her Majestys control and jurisdic-
tion until properly reclaimed by her original owners.
I have, etc.,
P.	E. WODEHOUSE.
	Rear-Admiral Sir B. [W.] WALKER.


[H. B. M. S.] NARCISSUS,
Simons Bay, December 27, 1863.
	SIR: As it appears that the Tuscaloosa, under your charge and com-
mand, is a vessel belonging to the Federal States of America, having
been captured by the C. S. ship of war Alabama, and not having been
adjudicated b~5re any competent prize court, is still an uncondemned
prize, which you have brought into this port iii violation of her Britan-
nic Majestys orders for the maintenance of her neutrality, I have the
honor to inform you that, in consequence, 1 am compelled to detain the
so-called Tuscaloosa (late Conrad), with the view of her being restored
to her orioinal owners, and I request you will be so good as to transfer
the charge of the vessel to the officer bearing this letter to you.
I am, etc.,
B.	W. WALKER.
	Lieutenant JOHN Low, C. S. Navy, Bark Tuscaloosa

Page 711

OPERATIONS OF TEE	ORUISEESOONPEDERATE. 711
[H. B. K. 5.1 flzoissus,
Shiess Bag, December N, 1868.
	Sm:	I have the honor to inform your Excelltey that, acting upon
your concurrence in my opinion with reference to the instructions
received from home by the last mail, I have detained the bark IWo.-
loose (iate Conrad, of Philadelphia), because she is an uncondemned.
prize, taken by theC. S. ship of war Alabama and brought into British
waters in violation of her Maijestys orders for maintaining her neutral-
ity, and with the view to her being restored to her original owners.
	1 shall be ready to hand her over to the consul of the United States
at Cape Town or to any person you may appoint totake charge of her.
	I should add that Lieutenant Low has given up the Tuscaloosa (late
Conrad) under protest, which he is about to make in writing, a copy of
which shall be transmitted to your ExceUscy as soon as received.
I have, etc.,
B. W. Wans.
	Sir P. IE.] WoDEHouBE.


C.	S. Bins TUscALoosA,
Shiess Bay, Cape of Good Hope, December N, 1868.
	Sm:	I have the honor to enclose for your information copy of a letter
which I have forwarded this day to his Excellency the governor of
the colony on the subject of the seizure in this port of the C. S. ship
Twscaloos&#38; 
I am., etc.,
Jon Low.
	Bear-Admiral Sir B. [W.] WALKn, Baronet, K C. B.1
	[Subrnbsure.J	Cousssas&#38; r ss CMqt

C.	S. BAn TUSCALOOSA,
Shiess Bay, Cape of Good Rope, December N, 1868.
	Sm:	As the officer in command of the C. S. ship Tuscaloosa, tender
to the 0.5.8. Alabama, I have to record my protest against the recent
extraordinary measures which have been adopted toward me and the
vessel under my command by the British anthorities of thiscolony.
	In August last the Tuscaloosa wived in Simons Bay. She was not
only recognized in the character which she lawfully claimed and still
claims to be, viz, a commissioned ship of war belonging to a belligerent
power, but was allowed to remain In the harbor for the period of seven
days, taking in supplies and effectin; repairs with the full knowledge
and sanction of tbe authorities. No intimation was given that she was
regarded merely in the light of an ordinary prize or that she was con-
sidered to be violating the laws of neutrality; nor when she notori-
ously left for a cruise on active service was any intimation whatever
conveyed that on her return to the port of a friendly power, where she
had been received as a man-of-war, she would be regarded as a prize,
asa violatorof the Queensproclamation of neutrality, and consequently
liable to seizure.
	Misled by the conduct of her K~jestys Government, I returned to
Simons Bay on the 26th instant, in very urgent want of repairs and
supplies. To my surprise, I find the Tuscaloosa is now no longer con-
sidered as a man-of-war, and she has by your orders, as I learn, been
seized for the purpose of being handed over to the person who claims
her on behalf of her late owners. The character of the vessel, vim,
that of a lawful commissioned man-of-war or the Confederate States o

Page 712

712 OPERNTIONS OF 1~IIfl ORtI~EllSCONFEPEffATTh

America, has not been altered since her first arrival in Simons Bay~
and she, having been once fully recognized by the British authorities
in command in this colony, and no notice or warning of change of
opinion or of friendly feeling having been communicated by public
notification or otherwise, I was entitled to expect to be again permitted
to enter Simons Bay without molestation.
	hi perfect good faith I returned to Simons Bay for mere necessaries,~
and in all honor and good faith in return, I should, on change of opin-
ion or policy on the part of the British authorities, have been desired
to leave the port again. But by the course of proceedings taken, I
have been (supposing the view now taken by your Exceflency~s Gov-
ernment to be correct) first misled and next entrapped.
	My position and character of my ship will most certainly be vindi-
cated by my Governuient. I am powerless to resist the affront offered
to the Confederate States of America by yonr Excellencys conduct
and proceedings. I demand, however, the release of my ship, and if
this demand be not prom~)tly complied with, I hereby formally protest
against her seizure, especially under the very peculiar circumstances of
the case.
I have, etc.,
JOHN Low.
His Excellency SIR P. [E.] WODEHOUSE, K. C. B.,
Governor of the Colony of the Gape of Good Hope.


COLONIAL OFFICE, Cape Town, December 29, 1863.
	SIR: I aur directed by the governor to acknowledge the receipt of
your letter of yesterdays date, protesting against the seizure of the
Tuscaloosa, whose character you represent to be the same as when in
August last, she was admitted into the port of Simons Bay, and I am to
acquaint you, in reply, that a full report was submitted to her Majestys
Government of all that took place on the first visit of the Tuscaloosa,
and that the seizure has now been made in conformity with the opinion
expressed by them on that report.
	Your protest will of course be transmitted for their consideration.
I have, etc.,
IRAWSON W. RAWSON,
Colonial &#38; cretary.
Lieutenant Low, C. S. Navy.

~H. B. M. S.] NARCISSUS,
AS1imons Bay, December 29, 1863.
	SIR:	Lieutenant Low, the officer belonging to the C. S. ship of war
Alabama, late in charge of the bark called the Tuscaloosa (properly the
Conrad, of Philadelphia), having sent me a copy of the protest which
he has forwarded to your Excellency against the detention of that ves-
sel, I think it right to enclose for your information the copy of my letter*
to Lieutenant Low explaining the circumstances under which the
so-called Tuscaloosa is detained.
I have, etc.,
B.	W. WALKER.
Sir P. [E.] WODEHOUSE.
	N.	B.I beg to enclose a list of the officers and men on board the
(ilonrad (late Tuscaloosa), as well as an inventory of stores, etc., on board,
distinguishing those which are said to belong to the Alabama.

* See p. 710

Page 713

	OPERATIO1~S OF tH1~ CRUISEI~SCONFED]~RAtE.	713

[Subenclosure.]

List of Confederate officers and crew on board the bark Conrad, late Tuscaloosa.

	Name.	Rank or rating.	Whence.
J. Low	Lieutenant commanding     
W. H. Sinelair	Master                 
3. T. Merior [Minor?]	Masters mate             
A. Marmilstein [?]	  do                  
Martin Molk	Boatswains mate	[C. S. S.] Alabama, June 22,1863.
R. Owens	  do	  Do.
H. Legris	Quartermaster	   Do.
E.Jones	  do	  Do.
T. Williams	Ships cook	  Do.
R. Williams	A. B. [seaman]	   Do.
W.Jones	  do	  Do.
W. Gibbs	  do	At sea, August 17, 1863.
EMorrell	  do	  Do.
A. Anderson	Ordinary [seaman]	  Do.
H. Anderson	  do	  Do.
S. Roberts	  do	  Do.
T. Ailman	Steward	Talisman, June 21, 1863.
XV. Rentou	A. B. [seaman]	[C. 5.5.] Alabama, June 21,1863.
S. Brewer	  do	  Do.
J. Duggan	  do	  Do.
J. Ross	Ordinary [seaman]	At sea, August 17, 1863.
COarew	do	Do.
S. Robertson	Carpenters mate	Do.
Ben Backatay	Ordinary [seaman]	Do.

List of stores and fittings belonging to the bark Conrad.
1 chronometer.
ibarometer.
2 sextants.
1 telescope.
2 timepieces.
1 Brazilian ensign.
1 American ensign.
1 longboat.
2 cutters.
1 bower anchor,26 cwt.
1 kedge anchor, 6 cwt.
1 kedge anchor, 3 cwt.
2 chain cables, 85 fathoms.
1 box of charts.
Standing and running rigging, complete,
but in very bad condition.
No spare stores of any description on
board.

JOHN Low,
Lieutenant, Commanding C. S. Bark Tuscaloosa.

W.	R. KENNEDY,
Lieutenant, H B. M. S. Narcissus.

List of stores belonging to the Confederate sloop of war Alabama on board the Conrad.
1 chronometer.
3 sextants.
1 telescope.
1 code of signals and signal book.
1 Dutch ensign.
1 Confederate ensign.
22 rifles and bayonets.
2 12-pounder rifled brass guns.
1 12-pounder smoothbore brass gun.
2 barrels gunpowder (100 pounds each).
100 cartridges (1 pound each).
6 12-pounder rifle shot.
6 12-pounder round shot.
500 ball cartridges.
500 percussion caps.
12 revolver pistols.
300 ball cartridges for revolver pistols.
500 percussion caps for revolver pistols.
5 cutlasses.
8 water casks.
3 charts.
JOHN Low,
Lieutenant, Commanding C. S. Bark Tuscaloosa.

W.	li. KENNEDY,
Lieutenant, H. B. 2W. S. Narcissus

Page 714

714 OPURATIONS or THU ORUIsflScoxrEr,mm.

rain bathe gwemin at the Cape at IeeL Rep. t the 3S etlwemutk anuenelag the
eels., by hi. erie, C the C. L teSt Tuesleum.

Gontmnn Housh,
Cape Town, January 11, 1864.
My LouD Dun: I very much regret having to acquaint your Grace
that the Confederate prize vessel, the Tuscaloosa, has again entered
Simons Bay, and that the naval commander in chief and myself have
come to the conclusion that, in obedience to the orders transmitted to
his Excellency by the admiralty and to me by your Graces dispateh
of the 4th November last, it was our duty to take possession of the
vessel ad to hold her until properly claimed by her original owners.
The admiral therefore sent a officer with a party of men from the flag-
ship to take charge of her ad to deliver to her commander a letter m
expiation of the act. Copies of his protest addressed to me, ad of
my reply, are enclosed. He not unnaturally complains of having been
now seized after he had on the previous occasion been recognized as a
ship of war. But this is manifestly nothing more than the Inevitable
result of the overruling by her Majestys Government of the conclusion
arrived at on the previous occasion by its subordinate officer.
The consul for the United States, on being infonned of what had
taken place, intimated his inability to take charge of the ship on
account of the owners, and expressed a desire that it shoul4 remain in
our charge until he was put in possession of the requisite authority.
Accordingly, after taking the opinion of the attorney-general, it was
arranged that the vessel should remain in the charge of Sir Baldwin
Walker.
I ought to explain that the seizure was made without previous
reference to the attorney-general. I did not consider such a refer-
ence n . The law had been determined by her Majestys Gov.
ernmenton the previous case. The admiral was of opinion that we
had only to obey the orders we had received, ad on his intimating
that opinion I assented.
Your Grace will observe that at the request of the officers of the
Tuscaloosa the admiral has permitted them to remain on board in expec-
tation of the immediate arrival of the Alabama, to which ship they
wish to return. I should otherwise have thought it my duty topro.
vide them with passagoto England atthecostof her Majestys Gov.
eminent, by whom I conclude theywould be sent to their own country;
and it is probable that if the Alabama should not soon make her
appearance such an arrangement will become necessary.
Ihave only to add that I have thought it advisable, after what has
now occurred, to intimate to the U. S. consul that we should probably
be under the necessity of adopting similar measures in the event of an
uncohdemned prize being fitted for cruising and brought into one of
our ports by a Federal ship of war. Idid not speakpositively, because
I have been left in donbt by your Graces instructions whether some
distinction should not be drawn in the case of a ship of war of one
belligerent captured and applied to the same use by the other bellig-
erent, but the consul was evidently prepared for such a step. Copies
of all the correspondence are enclosed.
I have, ete.,
P. IA. WoDnousiu.
His Grace the Dun or flwosnu

Page 715

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	715

Letter from Rear-Admiral Walker, 3. N., to the secretary of the British admiralty, regarding
the American vessel Conrad, called the C. S tender Tuscaloosa.


Simons Bay, January 18, 1864.
	SIR:	With reference to my letter of the 5th instant, I have the honor to
submit for their lordships information a further correspondence between
the governor of this colony and myself relative to the American ves-
sel Conrad, of Philadelphia, lately called the Tuscaloosa.
	2.	Lieutenant Low, belonging to the C. S. ship of war Alabama, lately
in charge of the Tuscaloosa, having paid off and discharged his crew,
finally quitted the vessel ou the 9th instant, and I have ordered him a
pak~sage to England by the mail packet Saxon, together with his first
officer, Mr. Sinclair.
	3.	The Conrad now remains iu charge of a warrant officer and two
ship keepers, awaiting to be properly claimed or disposed of as the
Government may direct.
	I have, etc.,	B. W. WALKER,
	Rear- Admiral.
The SECRETARY OF THE BRITISH ADMIRALTY,


Report of Lieutenant Low, C. S. Navy, of his arrival in Liverpool, after the seizure of the C. S.
bark Tuscaloosa by the authorities at the Cape of Good Hope.

LIVERPOOL, February 29, 1864.
	FLAG~OFFICER:	I have the honor to report to you my arrival here
from the Cape of Good Hope, at which port, as you will already have
seen by the public press, the C. S. bark Tuscaloosa, under my com-
mand, was seized. After attending to the disposal of all property
(acknowledged by the authorities at Simons Bay to belong to the Con-
federate States), I thought it prudent to pay oft my crew and return to
England, accompanied by William H. Sinclair, acting master, and
report myself here. I have directed Mr. Sinclair to 1)roceed to Paris
and report to you.
I have the honor to be, most respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOHN Low,
Acting Second Lieutenant, Coindy. C. S. Bark Tuscaloosa.
[Flag-Officer S. BARRON, C. S. Navy,
Paris, Prance.]


Instructions from the Duke of Newcastle to the governor of the Cape of Good Hope to restore
the C. S. bark Tuscaloosa (Conrad) to her late ConfederatA commander.

DowNINO- STREET, March 4, 1864.
	SIR:	I have received your dispatches of the 11th and 19th January,
reporting the circumstances connected with the seizure of the Confed-
erate prize vessel Tuscaloosa, under the joint authority of the naval
commander in chief and yourself. I have to instinct you to restore the
Tuscaloosa to the lieutenant of the Confederate States who lately coin-
manded her, or, if he should have left the cape, then to retain her until
she can be handed over to some person who may have authority from
Captain Semmes, of the Alabama, or from thIe Government of the Con-
federate States to receive her

Page 716

716 OPERATIONS OP TIlE CRUISERS-CONFEDERATE.

	You will receive a further communication from me on this subject by
the next mail.
I have, etc.,
NEWCASTLE.
Sir P. E. WODEHOUSE.


Report of Lieutenant Low, C. S. Navy, late commanding C. S. bark Tuscaloosa, transmitting
copies of correspondence with the authorities at the Cape of Good Hope.

LIvERPooL, March 7, 1864.
	FLAG-OFFICER: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt this
day of your letter of the 3d instant.
	Enclosed you will please find copies of all correspondence between
the authorities at the Cape of Good Hope and myself. I shall proceed
to make out an official report of the seizure of the Tuscaloosa, and in
compliance with your orders shall call upon the Hon. James M. Mason.
After so doing 1 shall at once proceed to Paris and report to you.
	I have the honor to be, most respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOHN Low, C. S. Navy.
	Flag-Officer S. BAREON.
[Enclosures.]

CAPE ToWN, January 13, 1864.
	SIR: With reference to the seizure of the C. S. bark Tuscaloosa in
Simons Bay by the naval authorities, acting upon your instructions, I
beg respectfully to inform your Excellency that on board of the said
vessel is a quantity of ordnance, small arms, and ammunition, the
property of the Confederate Government and supplied from the C. S. S.
Alabama when the Tuscaloosa was fitted out as her tender.
	As I purpose leaving the colony, I have the honor to request you
will grant me the required permission to land and store the property
in ~ Town in accordance with colonial regulations until instruc-
tions are received from my superior officer or my Government as to its
removal.
I am, sir, your most humble and obedient servant,
JOHN Low,

Lieutenant, C. S. Navy.
	His Excellency Sir PHILIP WODEHOUSE, K.C.B.,
Governor of the Colony of the Cape of Good Rope.


COLONIAL OFFICE,
[Cape Town], January 13, 1864.
	SIR: I am directed by the governor to acknowledge the receipt of
your letter of this date, and to state that his Excellency will request
the naval commander in chief to be good enough to allow the arms and
ammunition belonging to the Confederate States to be stored in the
dockyard at Simons Town.
	The governor hopes you will be good enough to acquaint him if any
of the officers of the Tuscaloosa desire the assistance of the government
in respect of leaving the colony.
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant,
RAWSON W. RAW$ON,
Colonial Secretary.
	Lieutenant Low, C. S. Navy

Page 717

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	717

CAPE TowN, January 14, 18G4.
	SIR: I beg to acknowledge receipt of your letter of yesterday, in
which I am informed that it is your Excellencys 4ntention to request
the naval commander in chief to allow the arms and ammunition
belonging to the Confederate States to be stored in the dockyard at
Simons Town.
	While thanking your Excellency for this intention, I beg to state
that as these were placed in my charge by Captain Semmes, of the
C. S. S. Alabama, I shall prefer handing them over to his agents in this
colony, to be Kored by them under the usual custom regulations, until
instructions can be received as to disposal, and would respectfully
solicit your Excellencys permission to have them landed, as I purpose
leaving for England in the next mail steamer.
	I have further to thank your Excellency on behalf of the officers of
th~ Tuscaloosa for your offer of assistance on leaving the colony, and to
state they have already made their arrangements.
1 am, sir, your Excellencys most obedient, humble servant,
JOHN Low, C. S. Navy.
	His Excellency Sir PHILIP WODEHOUSE, K. C. B., etc.


COLONIAL OFFICE,
[Gape Town], January 18, 1864.
	SIR: I am directed by the governor to acknowledge the receipt of your
letter of the 14th instant, and to state that on full consideration of the
case he thinks it advisable to adhere to the proposal already made
that the guns and other property alleged to belong to the Alabama
should be placed in the dockyard at Simons Tow; they will then be
subject to such orders as her Majestys Government may be pleased to
make in the matter.
	I am also to transmit for your information copies of a letter which has
been received from the consul of the United States, and of the reply
given to it by his Excellencys direction.
I have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servant,
RAwSoN W. ItAWSON,
Colonial &#38; cretary.
	Lieutenant Low, C. S. Navy.
[Subenclosures.]
U.	S. CONSULATE,
Cape Town, January 16, 1864.
	SIR: The report of J. M. bets, esq., on the Tuscaloosa, countersigned
by Lieutenant [W. 11.] Kennedy, of the Naremssus, has beeii received,
and a copy furnished Admiral Walker. Appended to that report is a
list* of articles claimed by Lieutenant Low, of the Tuscaloosa, as belong-
ing to the C. S. S. Alabama. Now, among the articles enumerated in
the list are three 12-pounder cannon taken from the American ship
Talisman and one smaller brass cannon taken from the ASea Bride, as I
can prove by the testimony of a competent witness. These cannon, I
request, shall be held for their owners in the same manner as the vessel.
Not being able to identify the other articles in this list with perfect
certainty, I shall not claim them.
	I have the honor to be, your most humble and obedient servant,
WALTER GRAHAM,
U.	S. Consul.
	His Excellency Sir PHILIP E. WODEHOUSE, Governor.
* Seep. 713

Page 718

718 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

COLONiAL OFFICE,
[Cape Town]~ January 18, 1864.
	SIR: I am directed by the governor to acknowledge the receipt of
your letter of the 16th instant, and to state that the guns to which you
refer will be held subject to such instructions as her Majestys Govern-
ment may think fit to issue respecting them.
I have the houor to be, your most obedient servant,
IRAWSON W. iRAWsON,

Colonial &#38; cretary.
The CoNsuL FOR THE UNITED STATES,
Cape Town.



Detailed report of lieutenant Low, C. S. 1~avy, late commanding C. S. bark Tuscaloosa, of the
cruise of that vessel while under his command.

LIVERPOOL, March  1864.

	SIR: I have the honor to report to you the cruise of the C. S. bark
Tuscaloosa, nuder my command sine
September last, until her recent e leaving the coast of Africa, in
seizure in Simons Bay.
	In compliance with instructions received from Captain Semmes,
C. S. S. Alabama, after landing the cargo of wool out of the Tuscaloosa
at the port of An~ra Pequefia, I proceeded on a cruise toward the
islands of St. Helena and Ascension. After seeing a number of neutral
vessels, I captured the American ship Lieing Age, but finding she had
a neutral cargo on board and bound to a neutral port, I took a ransom
bond for the suiu of ~16O,OOO and allowed her to proceed on her voyage.
From the island of Ascension I cruised along the equator and down
the Brazil coast, and on account of getting short of supplies I put into
the l)ort of St. Catharines, but the authorities there refused to give
nie anything on account of being tender to the A labama, on the grounds
that the latter vessel was not allowed supplies iu any Brazilian port on
account of violating their neutrality when laying at the island of Fer-
nando de Koronha.
	From the Brazils I proceeded to the island of Tristau da Cunha on
account of the number of American whale ships that generally cruise
round there at that season of the year, but arriving off there and not
seeing any, I communicated with the shore amid was informed that dur-
ing the whole season they had only seeu oue Americau whale ship,
although it was customary at that time, in peaceable times, to see
fifteen Americami whale ships laying off there.
	As my instructions were to be at Simons Bay, Cape of Good Hope,
by the 1st January, I proceeded to that port, where I came to anchor on
the 26Th of December at 6 p. in., informing the authorities that I came
in for supplies and repairs. Without any notification, on the evening
of the 27th December my vessel was seized by the admiral, Sir Baldwin
Walker, and officers and crew placed on board from H. B. M. S. Nar-
cissus to take command. Being perfectly powerless, all I could do was
to protest against the legality of the seizure, which I did, and a copy
of the protest and all cdrrespondence has already been forwarded to
yon. Finding the (lemand I made for the release ~f the vessel was not
acceded to, and after waiting there better than three weeks without
any Confederate vessel arriving, I thought it prudent, rather than go
to the unnecessary expense of keeping the crew on shore or paying
their expenses to England, to pay theni off with what wages were du

Page 719

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	719

them from the Tuscaloosa and certificates to show the amount due them
on the paymasters books of the Alabama; so I drew on the firm of
Messrs. Fraser, Trenhoim &#38; Co., Liverpool, for the~amount required,
chargeable to the Navy Department.
	After disposing of all property acknowledged by the authorities at
Simons Bay to belong to the Confederate States, I thought it prudent
to return to England, accompanied by my chief officer, William II.
Sinclair, and report myself here.
	In conclusion, I beg leave to state that although my cruise has been
most unsatisfactory to myself on account of doing so little with the
vessel, yet it is a consolation to know that out of the large number of
vessels I saw (upward of one hundred) there was only one American
ship, which is proof of the scarcity of American ships at sea at the
present time.
Trusting that what I have done may meet with your approval,
I am, most respectfully, your obedient servant,
JOHN Low, C. S. Navy.
[Flag-Officer S. BARRON, C. S. Navy
Paris, France.]


Letter from the Duke of Newcastle to the governor of the Cape of Good Hope, setting forth the
reasons for the restoration to the Confederate authorities of the bark Tuscaloosa.

DOWNING STREET, March 10, 1864.

	SIR: In my dispat.ch of the 4th instant I instructed you to restore
the Tuscaloosa to the lieutenant of the Confederate States who lately
commanded her; or, if he should have left the cape, then to retain her
nntil she could be handed over to some person having authority from
Captain Seinines, of the Alabama, or from the Government of the Con.
federate States, to receive her.
	I have now to explain that this decision was not founded on any gen-
eral principle respecting the treatment of prizes captured by the crais-
ers of either belligerent, but on the peculiar circumstances of the case.
The Tuscaloosa was allowed to enter the port of Cape Town, and to
depart, the instructions of the 4th of November not having arrived at
the cape before her departure. The captain of the Alabama was thus
entitled to assume that he might equally bring her a second time into
the same harbor, and it becomes unnecessary to discuss whether, on
her return to the cape, the Tuscaloosa still retained the character of a
prize, or whether she ha(l lost that character and had assumed that of
an armed tender to the Alabama, and whether that new character, if
properly established and admitted, would have entitled her to the same
privilege of admission which might be accorded to her captor, the
Alabama.
	11cr Majestys Government have, therefore, come to the opinion,
founded on the special circumstances of this particular case, that the
Tuscaloosa ought to be released, with a warning, however, to the cap-
taimi of the Alabama that the ships of war of the belligerents are not to
be allowed to briub prizes into British ports, and that it rests with her
Majestys Government to decide to what vessels that character belongs.
	In conclusion, I desire to assure you that neither in this dispatch nor
in that of the 4th November have I desired in any degree to censure you
for the course you have pursued. The questions on which you have
been called upon t~ decide are questions of difficulty, on which doubt

Page 720

720 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

might properly have been entertained, and I am by no means surprised
that the conclusions to which you were led have not in all instances
been those which have been adopted, on fullei~ consideration, by her
Majestys Government.
I have, etc.,
NEWCASTLE.
	Sir P. E. WODEHOUSE.


Extracts from the journal of Commander Semmes, C. S. Navy, commanding the C. S. S.
Alabama, January 5, 1863, to March 31, 1864.

	Monday, January 5.It did not blow last night, as I expected, and
this morning the wind has gone round to the southward and eastward
again. I can not wait loiiger for the norther, and so I must get under-
way. At 11 a. m. got underway, and stood ont from the anchorage
under steam. Let the steam go down, hoisted the propeller, and put the
ship under sail. Wind light, becoming nearly calm toward night.
Exercised the crew at quarters.
	Tuesday, January 6.We have certainly had extraordinarily flue
weather since we have been in the Gulf in midwinterseventeen days
without a gale of wind from the north and only one stift~ breeze from
the south. The barometer has fluctuated pretty regularly most of the
time, about one-tenth of an inch, going down in the afternoon and
rising again toward morning. The wind, which has been light from
the S. E. during the early part of the day, hauled to N. E. in the
afternoon, and freshened toward night. We are taking advantage of
the fine weather to continue the calking of our decks. Exercised the
crew at quarters. Latitude 210 11 43, longitude 930 13.
	Wednesday, January 7.Weather still very fine, with the breeze light,
from the northward and eastward. Barometer at noon, 30.10. Lati-
tude 22~ 35 43, longitude 940 26. A current about W. N. W. at the
rate of a knot an hour. Exercised the crew at quarters.
	Thursday, January 8.Weather fine, wind moderate, inclining to be
light, from the southward and eastward. Experienced a current set-
ting to the S. W. at the rate of 14 knots per hour. More sea on thait
the wind we have had could have produced, indicating a blow some-
where in the neighborhood. The barometer has fluctuated as usual,
rising from about 10 p. m. until morning and then descending as the day
advances. Latitude 240 36 17, longitude 940 45 30. We have seen
nothing since we left the Arc~as, and if we have the same good fortune
we shall take the enemy off Galveston completely by surprise. We
had lightning in the north to-night, but the barometer is well up. At
about 9p.m. it began to rise as usual,and the wind, which had been
light, freshened. The night is perfectly clear and fine, with the moon
just beginning to wane.
	Friday, January 9.Weather fine wind from the southward, freshen-
ing during the night, with flying clouds, and lightning in the north. At
10 p. m. took in all the studding sails. Barometer about 29.98. Lati-
tude 260 19, longitude 940 11.
	~S~aturday, January 10.The south wind last, night increased until
about 6 a. in., when it culminated in rain squalls and a shift of wind
from the north, the lightning being quite vivid. At 9 the weather
cleared. Made sail. Barometer 30; stationary. The weather clouded
und looked like a blow from the northward again in the afternoon, but
cleared off again during the night and fell nearly calm. The last twenty

Page 721

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	721

four hours have indeed presented a variety of changes in the weather.
Latitnde 270 45 30, longitude 940 42 current about S. S. W., 14
miles per hour.
	Sunday, January 11.This is as serene and lovely a day as one often
sees, and we hope it is Providence smiling upon our approach to Gal-
veston. There is now (10:30 a. in.) every prospect of my obtaining a
good position from which to run in to-night. At Ii mustered the crew
and read the articles of war. My crew are a fine-looking body of men,
have been well drilled, and are not averse, J think, to a trial of skill
and force with the enemy. Wind rather light, from the eastward;
latitude 280 51 45, longitude 940 55. Our position at noon put us
within30 miles of Galveston,and I stood on, intending eitherjust to sight
the shipping at a great distance without being seen myself, or else to
anchor just out of sight until the moon should rise the following night,
which would be about half past 11, and then run in and attack, as I
hoped, Bankss expedition. Owing to a little carelessness in the look-
out at masthead, however, we were permitted to approach the ships
anchored off the bar in such plain sight before they were aniionnced that
we were discovered, although we tacked immediately and stood off iu
hopes of eluding the vigilance of the enemy. There were three ships
found lying off the barone heavily-sparred ship, which our lookout
took for a sail frigate, but which afterwards proved to be the Brooklyn,
steamer, our old friend that chased us in the Sumter, and two steamers,
supposed to be propellers. Yery soon one of the steamers was seen to
be getting up steam, and in about an hour and a half afterwards she
was reported to be underway, standing out for us. I lowered the propel-
ler and directed steam to be got in readiness, and awaited theapproach of
the stranger, who overhauled us very slowly and seemed to reconnoiter
us as he approached with great caution. I was standing all this time
under topsails, away from the bar, and the stranger was approaching
me stern on. I gave my ship a little motion with the engine occasion-
ally, both to draw the enemy (for I supposed him to be such) away from
his consorts, so that in case of a conflict the latter could not hear our
guns, and to prolong the time until dark to enable me to take in my top.
sails and close with him in so short a time that the movement would
not be noticed by him until too late to escape, which I feared he might
attempt if he saw me turn upon him with the intention to pursue him.
Accordingly, soon after dark, the enemy in the meantime having
approached us so near [as] not to endanger our losing sight of him, I
dewed up and furled the topsails, beat to quarters, and doubled sud-
denly upon the stranger. He came on quite boldly, and when within
hailing distance of us hailed us and enquired, What ship is that I
To which we responded, Her Majestys steamer Petrel, and in turn
enquired who he was. We could not make out his reply, although we
repeated our enquiry several times. During this colloquy I endeavored
to place myself in a raking position astern of him, which he as carefully
avoidedbykeepinghisport broadsidetome. From this maneuver Iknew
him pretty certainly to be an enemy, and, having approached within
about 200 yards, I directed my first lieutenant to ask again what ship
it was, being loth to fire upon him without a reply, fearing that I
might by possibility make a mistake. This time we heard his reply
very distinctlythat he was a United States something or other; the
name we could not make out. I then directed the first lieutenant to
tell him that this was the Confederate States steamer Alabama, and
to open fire upon him immediately, which we did from our starboard
battery. He returned our fire in a minute or two, and the action was
N W R-.--Y014 ii4

Page 722

722 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

then commenced. We continued to run side by side, at a distance
ranging from 200 to 500 yards. Both of us kept up a rapid fire of both
artillery and rifles, when, after the lapse of thirteeii minutes, the enemy
fired two guns from his off or starboard side and showed a light above
his deck in token of his being whipped. We immediately ceased firing,
and, approaching him still nearer, asked him if he had surrendered
and if he needed assistance. To both of these questions lie replied in
the affirmative, and we immediately dispatched our quarter boats to
him. These, with his own four boats, were busily employed in trans-
porting the crew on board, which had only been accomplished when the
ship went downin about three-quarters of an hour after the action
had ceased. The prize proved to be the U. S. gunboat Hatteras, Lieu-
tenant-Commander II. 0. Blake, which officer came on board after his
crew had been transported and delivered me his sword. I told him I
was glad to see him on board the Alabama, and we would endeavor to
make his time as comfortable as possible. The Hatteras had the fol-
lowing armament: Four 27-cwt. 32-pounders, two 30-pounder rifle guns,
one 20-pounder rifle gun, and one 12-pounder howitzertotal, 8. We
bad six 32-pounders, 52 cwt.; one 8-inch shell and one 100-pounder,
rifled, and a 24-pounder rifletotal 9. A great disparity in weight of
metal in our favor, but we equalized this, to a considerable extent, by
the fair fight which we showed the enemy in approaching him so very
near as to render his smaller guns almost as efficient as larger ones.
The tonnage of the ship was 1,100 tons; material, iron, with water-
tight compartments; age, 18 months. Her crew numbered 108 men
and 18 offlc~rs. The casualties on both sides were slight. On board
the enemy, 2 missing (firemen), supposed to have been killed in the
fire room, and 3 wounded, 1 severely and 2 slightly; and on board our-
selves 2 wounded slightly. After the action had been over an hour
and more, and while I was steaming off on my course, it was mentioned
to me that a boat of the enemy containing an acting master and five
men, which had been lowered before we opened fire upon him to board
Her Majestys steamer Petrel, had escaped. As the sea was smooth
and the wind blowing gently toward the shore, distant about 19 miles,
this boat probably reached the shore in safety in five or six hours. The
night was clear and starlit, and it had no difficulty in shaping its course.
But for these circumstances I should have turned back to look for it,
hopeless as this task might have proved in the dark. The weather con-
tinued moderate during the whole night and the wind to blow on
shore.
	It was ascertained that Galveston had been retaken by us and that
the Brooklyn and four of the enemys steam sloops were off the port
awaiting a reenforcemeut of three other ships from New Orleans to
cannonade the place. So there was no Banks expedition, with its
transports laden with troops, etc., to be attacked, and but for the bad
lookout of our man at the masthead we should have got into a hornets
nest instead of the Banks expedition.
	Monday, January 12.Weather clear, wind fresh from the S. E.,
increasing as the day advanced, until at 8 p. m. it blew a moderate
gale from E. S. E., which continued all night, raising some sea toward
the latter part of the night and diminishing our speed a couple of
knots. Latitude 28~ 3 51, longitude 930 8. We are very much
crowded with prisoners, but every one seems to be doing well.
	Tuesday, January 13.The wind still continues fresh from the S. E.,
retarding very much our speed. At 12:20 p. m. descried a sail from
* Our own crew 111 men, officers 26

Page 723

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	723

aloft. Gave chase nearly ahead, and at 2:40 came up with and showed
our colors to the Agripjpina. Latitude 27~ 5, longitude 900 37 15.
	Wednesday, January 14.Weather clear, with a vale from the S. E.,
which has continued now for the third day, and we are not only retarded
3 miles per hour in our speed, but are encountering an adverse current
of 3 knots per hour. The fates seem to conspire to keep us in the
Gulf. Latitude 25~ 58 39, longitude 880 58. I was obliged to suc-
cumb to the gale, after struggling against it for two days. At 6 p. m.
we let the fires go down, and hove the ship to under single-reefed try-
sails, on the starboard tack.
	Thursday, January 15.The gale still continues, with the barometer
at 29.67. It blew quite fresh all night. The wind has hauled to about
S.S.W., and we have slight showers of rain with the clouds as they
sweep rapidly by. Just before noon the wind shifted to the N. W.,
with heavy banks of black clouds and rain. No observation for lati-
tude, and, as we are in the midst of strong and variable currents, our
position is somewhat doubtful. We have one or two of those bugbears
around us, such as breakers, seen iu 1849, etc., which, of course, it
is of no use to attempt to avoid, as in the uncertainty of our position
we might run upon instead of running away from them; and so
when the confused sea, consequent upon the change of wind, shall have
assumed some little regularity, I will make sail and run before the gale.
Supposed latitude 26~ 16, supposed longitude 880 35. An ugly night,
with the wind blowing a strong gale amid considerable sea running.
At 3:30 a. m. brought the ship by the wind until daylight.
	Friday, Ja~uary 16.The gale continued nearly all day, moderating
toward night. Dull, hard-looking sky, obscuring the sun, so as barely
to give us a glimpse or two of him during the day. At 1 p. m.
sounded on the Yucatan Bank. Latitude 230 43 49, longitude 870 35.
Continued to run to the southward and eastward on the bank until
11:30 p. in., when we passed off it into the channel. Iu this channel
we were the rest of the night, experiencing a curremit (during twenty-
four hours) of 2~ knots per hour, north.
	Saturday, January 17.Weather still very unsettled; wind from the
northward and eastward, and squally. Some sea on, showing the effects
of the late gale. Observed to-day in the chops of the channel in lati-
tude 210 45 22, longitude 850 34. In the afternoon showed the
Spanish ensign to an English brig. The wind increased at night to a
moderate gale. Steaming under reefed fore and aft sails. It blew a
fresh gale all night, and raised some seaenough to render the motion
very uncomfortable.
	Sunday, January 18.The gale still continues, with squalls and rain.
On account of the bad weather, and the ship being full of prisoners,
we dispensed with the usual Sunday muster. A. sail passed to leeward
of us, out of sight from the deck. Latitude 19~ 50 51, longitude
82~ 51.
	Monday, January 19.Wind still fresh from the N. E., making but
6~ and 7 knots. Latitude 18~ 30 14, longitude 80~ 34.
	Tuesday, January 20.Up from 2 oclock, looking out for the land,
which we made a little before daybreak. Running along the coast all
day. Showed English and French colors to an English bark and an
English schooner. Passed Portland [Jamaical about 3 p. in., and mnade
the light-house on Plum Point at 4: 30. Up the light-house just at
nightfall. Hoisted French colors and fired a gun for a pilot. The
pilot boarded us about 6:30, and in about three-quarters of an hour we
were at anchor at Port Royal

Page 724

724 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Wednesday, January 21.Found here several English men-of-war
the Jason, the Challenger, the Greyhound, etc., the commanders of all
of which called. I saw the commodore (Dunh~i9) this morning, and
requested the governor, through him, to permit me to land my pris-
oners, etc., which was readily granted. Made arrangements for coaling
and provisioning the ship and for repairing damages; and in the after-
noon ran up to Kingston and thence proceeded to the mountains with
Mr. Fyfe.
	Thursday, January 22.Had a delightful ride on a fine natural
macadamized road for about 10 miles, and thence, by horse and bridle
path, through the most picturesque of mountainous regions, with its
lovely valley, abrupt precipices, streams of water, luxuriant foliage,
etc., to Flamstead, the residence of the Rev. Mr. Fyfe, who soon re-
turned from town and received me most hospitably. Spent a delight-
ful, quiet day, riding to Flamstead and walking in the afternoon along
the winding mountain paths. Jamaicathat is, the south sideis a
wilderness and the town of Kingston a ruin; the negro population
idle and thriftless, and greatly subject to diseases of an inflammatory
kind; no morals, superstitious, etc.
	Friday, January 23.Rode over to and spent the day and night at
Blacksburgh, visiting on the route the English-looking cottage of
Captain Kent, now absent in England. Had some lady visitors at
Blacksburgh in the evening. Evening quite cool; a fire comfortable.
Elevation about 3,500 feet.
	Saturday, January 24.Returned to town to-day by the way of Mr.
Maiss fairy little cottage, kept in the nicest of order, and in a perfect
picture of a country. Had a fine family of daughters, etc. Upon my
arrival in town I found that my friends had kindly put a notice in the
papers informing the good people that I would be at the Exchange at 12,
etc. Was obliged to go, and made a speech to the people, which was
well received. Learned that my paymaster had been disgracing him-
self, and that my crew were all still on shorethe drunken rascals I
Returned in boat in the evening.
	Sunday, January 25.Workmen still engaged trying to get the ship
ready for sea to-night. Returned my visits to the English captains,
all of whom 1 found very agreeable. Getting in the ships bills and
getting my drunken rascals on board, with the aid of the police.
Three of them, in broad daylight, jumped into a shore boat and tried
to escape, but we pursued and captured them. Work all done and
fires lighted at 5, and at 8:30 we steamed out of the harbor. It blew
fresh from the K. E. all night, retarding our way very much.
	Monday, January 26.Fine weather, with the wind fresh from the N.
and E. during the morning, moderating toward noon. At 10:30
descried a sail, which we came up with at 1:20 p. m. She proved to
be the Golden Rule, from New York for Aspiuwall. Captured her and
burned her, there being no certificate of the neutrality of the cargo
on board. This vessel had on board masts, spars, and a complete set
of rigging for the U. S. brig Bainbridge, lately obliged to cut away her
masts in a gale at Aspinwall. At about 6 p. in., the prize being well
on fire, steamed off on our course. Number of prisoners, 9. Latitude
17~ 50 39, longitude 740 52 30.

Case of the Goldesz Rule.

	No certificate of the neutral ownership of any portion of the cargo.
The only bills of lading found on board are the following:
	Marcial &#38; Co. to Gregorie, Miro &#38; Co., $2,069.28; insured against
war risk. Keeler &#38; Voorhis to John Wilson, $724.20; consigned t

Page 725

	OPERATIONS OF TUE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	725

order and for account and risk of whom it may concern. Woolsey,
consigned to order, amount not stated and no letter of advice. Berner
to Field, amount not stated aud no letter of a~i1vice. llerques &#38; 
Maseras to Juan Melandez, ~41 .58. F. Heuriat to Gillas, amount not
stated and no letters.
	Tue8day, January 27.Weather clear, with passing trade clouds;
wind blowing very fresh and raisiiig some sea, retarding the speed of
the vessel to 6 and 7 knots. Sick list largely increased, from the dis-
sipation of my vagabonds on shore. It will take me at least a week to
get the ruin out of them, and to try the more vicious by court-martial.
At 3 p. in. made Alta Wela. At 8:30 hove to and sent a boat on board
of a Spanish brig, from Montevideo for Havana; and at 11 p. in., Alta
Vela bearing N., distant 5 miles, captured and burned the North
American brig Oh astelaine, of Boston, from Martinique and Guadeloupe
for Cienfuegos. Latitude 170 19 50, longitnde 720 21.
	Wednesday, January 28.Weather clear, with partial clouds, wind
moderating somewhat; the island of Haiti in sight on our port beam
and bow. Latitude 170 56 30, longitude 700 28. Running along the
coast to the eastward. At 4 p. m. made the city of San Domingo, and
at 6 p. m. came to anchor off the town, there being two other vessels
in the road, one a New York brig under English cokrs. The pilot
boarded me just after I had let go my anchor, and soon afterwards
the captain of the port, who proved to be an old acquaintance, he hav-
ing piloted the brig Porpoise about the island in 1846 when I was her
first lieutenant. He seemed quite pleased at the recognition. He took
my request o~ shore for leave to land my prisoners, and soon afterward
returned with a commander in the Spanish navy, bringing the requisite
permission from the military governor. The prisoners were sent on
shore in their own boats at about 110 p. m. We anchored here in 6~
fathoms water, with the light bearing about N. ~ W. Our flag was
exhibited here for the first time.
	Thursday, January 29.Weather very fine, with the breeze light
during the day, freshening toward nightfall. At 8 a. in., having
received on board a supply of fresh provisions and fruits for the crew,
we got underway and proceeded along the coast to the eastward, pass-
ing a number of country boats plying along the coast. At 5:30 caine
up with the west end of Saona [Island, off which, there being a shoal
extending out 3 or 4 miles, we gave it a berth and saw a tide rip and
white water at least 4 miles from th~ land. Doubled the island and
entered the Mona Passage at about 8:30 p. m. At 10 we were obliged
to stop the engine for three hours to screw up the cylinders. Hove her
to under trysails. At 1 a. m. went ahead again nuder steam, and at 2
made the island of Mona- course N. E. by N. At noon east end of
Catalina Island bore N. N. E., distant 4 miles.
	Friday, January 30.Weather very fine; made several sail during
the dayone a Spanish schooner, to which we gave the longitude, and
a sqnare-riggei, running for the Mona Passage or the north side of
Haiti, that looked foreign. She passed too far astern of us to chase
withont losing time and coal. At 3 p. m. let the steam go down and
raised the propeller, the ship having been previously put under sail.
Latitude 190 31 19, longitude 670 38 15.
	Saturday, January 31.Weather very fine, with a moderate trade
wind and a smooth, light-blue sea. Latitude 21~ 45 45, longitude
680 6 45. The court-martial, having gotten through the work of
straightening up the visit of the starboard watch to the shore, was
this day dissolved

Page 726

726 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Sunday, February 1.Weather clear and cloudy, with light squalls
of rain. At 11 a. iii. mustered the crew and rea~d the articles of war
and a general order announcing the sentences of the court-martial.
Latitude 240 8 2, longitude 680 18.
	Monday, February 2.Weather very fine, with a moderate trade,
inclining to be light, and a smooth sea. We are nearing the calm belt
of Cancer, and shall probably lose the trades in a day or two. Lati-
tude 26~ 17 25, longitude 68~ 6. At 2 p. m. overhauled and sent a
boat on board of an English brig, from Bathurst, coast of Africa, for
New York, and at nightiall sent a boat on board of a Hamburg barken-
tine, from Cardiff, with coal, for New York. We had alarm of fire
to-day. I happened to be on deck, and gave the order to beat to quar-
ters, but before it could be executed the fire was extinguished. It arose
from the carelessness of the captain of the hold, who took a naked light
into the spirit room to pump oft liquor by, in violation of the written
orders of the ship, and the moment he commenced operations the fumes
of the liquor took fire, causing serious alarm for the moment. I con-
fined him in double irons. We have a fine breeze from about S. S. E.,
and I hope we shall escape the calms altogether.
	Tuesday, February 3.Weather very fine, with the breeze from the
S. S. E., and increasing, so that we have escaped the calms. Atmos-
phere hazy. Latitude 270 18 27, longitude 66~ 10. At 1:30 p. m.
came up with and captured the North American schooner Palmetto,
from New York for St. Johns, Porto Rico [San Juan, Puerto Rico],
laden with a mixed cargo of provisions, f~r which there was no certifi-
cate or dep~sition of claim as neutral on board. Took on board such
of the provisions as we needed, brought on board the master and
crew, and at nightfall fired her and filled away on our course.

Case of the Palmetto.

	The schooner was United States, per register and flag. The cargo
was shipped by Herques &#38; Maseras, of New York, to Vincente Broth-
ers, in San Juan, Porto Rico [Puerto Rico]. There was no affidavit or
certificate of neutral property on board, and the cargo would have been
condemnable on this ground alone. It being an enemys ship, it is pre-
sumed to be enemys property until the contrary be shown by proper
evidence under oath. The master, upon examination, testified that he
had no knowledge of the ownership of the cargo, and this though lie
was the agent and charterer of the ship, as well as master. The
correspondence found on boardthat is to say, a letter from the ship-
pers to the consigneestates that the cargo is shipped two-thirds on
account of the consignee and one-third on account of the shippers, the
parties being the joint owners of the undivided cargo in these propor-
tions. Therefore, whatever may be the general business relations of
the parties, they are, quoad this shipment, partners, and the house in
the enemys country having shipped the goods, the other partners
share is condemnable, notwithstanding his m-esidence in a neutral coun-
try. See 3 Phillinmore, 605; and the Vigilantia, 1 Rob., pp. 1, 14, 19;
the Susa, ib., p. 255.
	Wednesday, February 4.Latitude 28~, longitude 640 11. A little
after meridian sighted a sail on the weather bow, closehauled, like our-
selves, and kept it in sight until night, having head-reached and gaitied
to windward upon it, but we lost it soon after dark. The weather thick
and the wind freshening from the N. E. Single reefed the topsails

Page 727

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	727


	Thursday, February 5.Weather thick, with occasional light squalls
of rain, the wind blowing half a gale. Took the bonnets off the try-
sails. The prisoners being few in number, ordered their irons taken off
them during the daytime. Sighted two sail in the afternoon, and wore
ship to the northward, with the hope of illtez cepting one of them, but
she was holding her wind and passed to windward out of sight from
the deck. Wore ship again on our course as night set in. The wind
increased to a gale at nightfall. Close reefed the topsails and single
reefed the trysails. Latitude 270 10 2, longitude 610 30.
	Friday, February G.It blew a gale all night last night, with consid-
erable sea, giving us a good deal of motion and stirring up the bilge
water to a most unpleasant degree, its fumes blackening metals, paint-
work, and even tainting pure gold. At 8: 3() sighted a sail; ian down
for her,. and at 10 overhauled her, she showing Spanish colors (a full-
rigged brig steering a course for Europe). Wind still fresh, and
weather squally with rain. Turned a reef out of the topsail, and put
bonnets on trysails. During this blow the barometer gave no sign, it
being at the commencement and continuing at about 30.30. Latitude
25~ 44, longitude 60~ 32 30. At nightfall wore ship to the northward.
	Saturday, February 7.Weather becoming tine again. The wind is
dying away, leaving quite a sea, in which we are tumbling about. Lat-
itude 260 36 37, longitude 600 15. The N. E. wind hangs on as obsti-
nately as if it were the trade, and yet we are three or four degrees
to the northward of the usual trade limit at this season of the year.
	Sunday, February 8.Latitude 25~ 41 50, longitude 580 48. A
gloomy Sabl~th upon the sea, bringing naturally to the mind thoughts
of home and family and the possible termination of the war.
	Monday, February 9.Latitude 240 51 18, longitnde 570 55. We
have passed long tracks of seaweed within the last few days, stretch-
ing along in the direction of the wind, indicating its prevalence for
some time from the same quarter. Exercised at general quarters.
	Tue8day, February 10.A be mutiful, bright morning, but we are in
the calms. Latitude 24~ 32 53, hon gitude 56~ 53 15.
	Wednesday, February 11.Morning fine. At meridian caine up with
and sent a boat on board an English pink-stern schooner from Yar-
mouth, Nova Scotia, for Barbados. Received one or two rather old
newspapers. Latitude 240 52 30, longitude 56~ 34 30. The Vander-
bilt and the Sacramento were to sail toward the last of January in
pursuit of us.
	Thursday, February 12.Morning fine, cloudimig partially toward
noon. The wind still hangs steadily in the N. E., inclining to be light
during the afternoon. Tacked to the northward and westward. Lati-
tude 250 15 47, longitude 550 36 30.
	Friday, February 13.Weather cloudy, with the wind light, from
southward and eastward. Latitude 260 8; hon gitude 550 32. We have
been five days making 180 miles. Evidently i~i the doldrnms, though
we are farther north than they are usually found at this season of the
year; steering N. E. to get out of them. Overhauled and showed United
States colors to aim English schooner.
	Saturday, February 14.Morning sky entirely overcast with rain
clouds, clearing toward noomi. Yesterday, toward night, the breeze
freshened an(l we have now a pretty good wind frommi the westward,
which we might expect upon reaching the northern 5i(Ie of the calm
belt. Plenty of seaweed. Latitude 27~ 9 4, longitude 5J0 17 30.
	Sunday, February fl.Morning cloudy, clearing toward noon. By 10
oclock last night the wind had freshened to a gale, which increase

Page 728

728 OPERATIONS OF TilE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

daring the light until we were reduced to close-reefed topsails and
single-reefed trysails by 5 this morning. It is~stili (1 p. in.) blowing
very fresh from the north. Latitude 280 29 ~2, longitude 500 7.
This boisterous Sabbath is the second anniversary of my resignation
from the U. S. wavy, and of course it has called up many reminiscences.
I have more and more reason, as time rolls on, to be gratified at my
prompt determination to quit the service of a corrupt and fanatical
majority, which even then had overridden the Constitution and shown
itself in so aggressive and nnscrupulous a form as to alarm ns. But
what shall we say of its course since ~ Simply that it has followed the
broad way described by the poet; and we might even add facilissime
fuit deseensus ejus avernus. If the historian perform his duty faithfully,
posterity will be amazed at the wickedness and corruption of the
Korthern and Western people, and will won dci by what process such a
depth of infamy was reached in so short a time. The secret lies here:
The politicians had become political stockjobbers, and the seekers of
wealth had become knaves and swindlers; and into these two classes
may be divided nearly the whole Yankee population. Such is Ply.
mouth bock in our day, with its Beechers in the pulpit and its Lincoln
in the chair of Washington, it Sumners and Lovejoys in Congress, and
its Simmonses et id omne genus in the contract market.
	Monday, February 16.Latitnde 28~ 45, Ion gitude 460 57 30.
	Tuesday, February 17.Latitude 280 ii 43, longitude 450 1 45.
	Wednesday, February 18.Latitude 28~ 15 19, longitude 440 37 15.
	Thursday, February 19.Cloudy and calm~ we have made 10 miles, and
that not in the right direction, during the last twenty-four hours. But
patience is, or ought to be, a seamans virtue. Latitude 280 4 35,
longitude 440 29 30.
	Friday, February 20.It has been nearly calm during the last twenty-
four hours. I am not quite far enough to the eastward to venture the
run to the southward yet, and so I am steering north for a breeze.
Latitude 28~ 32 31, longitude 450 5.
	Saturday, February 21.Weather very fine; wind light from the
southward and eastward. About 7 a. nim. a sail was descried from aloft,
and others soon afterwards in succession until four were seen. We
gave chase to the first one discovered, standing to eastward for an
hour and more, but finding her well ahead and to windward we tacked
and gave chase to two others, getting up steam, as one of the two
showed United States colors and Was too far to windward to be
overhauled in the very light breeze that was blowing. At 1 p. m.
came up with and captured the ship Golden Eagleshe standing a
couple of shot before she hove tofrom lowland Island, Pacific Ocean,
for Cork, for orders. Threw a prize crew on board of her, with direc-
tions to follow, and stood for the other, now some 15 miles distant.
Came up with her at 3 p. m. She proved to be the bark Olive Jane,
from Bordeaux for New York. Captured and burned her and then
stood back to meet our first prize, with which we came up at about
dusk. Got on board from her a few provisions, and then burned her and
filled away on our course. The former was laden with a partial cargo
of French wines and knicknackeries, and the latter (the latter one
burned) with guano. Latitude 290 28, longitude 440 58.
	Sunday, February 22.Weather cloudy, becoming showery toward
noon, with the wind light amid variable. The breeze was so light all
night that dayliglmt found us only about a dozen miles from the still
floating and smoking remains of our prizes. About an hour and a half
before daylight descried a sail on our starboard quarter. Wore ship i

Page 729

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	729

chase, but lost her in the (larkuess in a short time. We still kept on in
her supposed course and at daylight five sail were reported in the course
of an hour. We chased and caused to show their~olors three of them,
viz, an English bark, a Dutch bark, and an English bark again. Lati-
tude 290 33, longitude 440 57.

Case of the Olive Jane.

	Under United States colors and register; from Bordeaux for New York;
cargo consigned generally to houses in New York, with the exception
of five of the shipments, which are consigned to order. But there is no
claim among the papers of French property, even in these latter ship-
ments and non constat but that the property is American, and that the
consignment on the face of the papers was made in this manner to give
a semblance of French ownership until the property should reach its
destination, when the real owner would claim it under a duly endorsed
bill of lading, forwarded to him by steamer. At all events, thepresump-
tion of law is that all property found on board an enemy is enemys
property until the contrary be shown by proper evidence, and no evidence
has been presented in this case at all. The master, though one-fourth
owner of the bark, and who, consequently, should be well informed as
to her cargo, etc., knows nothing, except that one of the shippers, a
Frenchman, told him that 40 casks of wine, worth perhaps ~20 per cask,
belonged to him. Vessel and cargo condemned.

Case of the Goldeu Eagle.

	Ship under United States colors and register; from San Francisco,
via lowland Island, for Cork, laden with guano by the American Guano
Company; cargo consigned to order. There is no question, therefore,
of property. Ship and cargo condemned.
	Monday February 23.Weather cloudy and rainy, wind light and
variable. Four sail in sight this morningall European bound. At 8
a. in. showed the United States colors to a French bark. The weather
becoming calm, got up steam and overhauled all four of the sailthree
English and one Frenchman. One of the Englishmen was an Austra-
lian packet from Melbourne; one from a South American port, with
copper ore. The other we did not board. The Frenchman was from
Buenos Ayres for llavre. Put two of the recently captured prisoners
on board of him, a French artist and a boy. Afternoon clear and
fine and calm. The long prevalence of northerly winds has driven this
European fleet five or six degrees to the westward. Latitude 3Q0 21,
longitude 430 55.
	Tuesday, February 24.Weather very fine, with a moderate breeze
from the southward and westward and a pleasant, bracing temperature.
Being in the vicinity of the crossing of the 30th l)arallel by the San
IRoque and India bound American ships, shortened sail to topsails.
Toward sunset showed the United States colors to a French bark, lati-
tude 30~ 32 52, longitude 42~ 50 30, and at 9:30 p. m. hove to (after
firing two cartridges and chasing three-quarters of an hour and com-
manding her in English and French to heave to) a Portuguese brig from
Pernambuco to Lisbon. Upon the boarding officer going on board, he
found everybody in such a state of alarm that no one seemed to know
what to do, and this was the excuse they had for not heaving to at the
guns.
	Wednesday, February 25.Cloudy, with the wind fresh from the west-
ward. At 1:30 p. m. chased and showed the United States colors to 

Page 730

730 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

Dutch bark, latitude 390 22, longitude 490 3 39, but, alas, nothing
coming over the charmed crossing but neutrals, going the wrong way.
At 3 p. m. sent a boat on board of an English brig from Guayaquil
for London. Refused to take a discharged seaman (English) to
England.
	Thursday, February 2G.Cloudy, with the wind light and variable.
At 1:39 a. m. hove to and sent a boat on board of the English four-
master Sarah Sands, from East Indies for Falmouth, 140 days out.
Refused to take a discharged seaman (English) to England. Real John
Russell diplomats, these fellows. At daylight other sails were descried,
until seven were in sight at one time, probably not a Yankee among
them, as they are all steering for Europe. Among the number we
recognize the four-master we boarded last night, though it puzzles us
to conceive how she could be here, as we steered S. and she E. N. E.
when we parted. Showed United States colors (10 a. in.) to an English
bark, and at 1 p. m. hove to an obstinate Hamburg bark that refused to
show colors until we were nearly upon him and had fired a gun. Lati-
tude 390 23, longitude 490 4~ 45. At 3 p. m. an English and French
ship passed us, all traveling in this long procession to Europe. The
weather is looking unsettled. Just at nightfall another English (Mal.
tese) brig passe(l.
	Friday, February 27.Cloudy, with slight showers of rain; wind light
from the northward. Barometer high, and has been high for a month
past without exception. At 8:30 showed United States colors to a
Portuguese bark. All nations but the Yankee nation! Latitude
390 19, longitude 490 1. Gave chase to two ships ahead. The first
proved to be an English ship, the second the North American ship
Washington, of New York, which we hove to with a shot, after firing
two blank cartridges, and captured. This ship having a cargo of
guano on board from the Chincha Islands, on account of the Peruvian
Government, consigned to their agents in Antwerp, released her on
ransom bond and sent all the prisoners on board of her, amid at 9:30,
filled away. At 19:30 spoke aud hove to an English ship from the~
East Indies laden with silk and wines. Sent to England by her a:
discharged boatswains mate and fireman.
	Saturday, February 28.Clear and fine and calm. Several sail in1
sight; some that we overhauled yesterday, and others not before seeu.
Latitude 390 7 43, longitude 390,38 39. Made the ratings to fill
up the vacancies caused by the two men discharged. In the after-
noon a light breeze sprung up from northward and westward; came
up with and signaled an English ship and an English bail, both from
the East lndies. At 8 p. in. sent a boat on board of a French ship
from Batavia for Nantes.
	Sunday, March 1.Cloudy, with the wind light from the westward.
Soon after daylight hove to and captured the ship Bethiah Thayer, of
Rockland, Me. Released her on ransom bond, she being loaded with
guano on behalf of the Peruvian Government. Latitude 29~ 59 7,
longitude 380 31. Chasing to leeward. At 11 mustered the crew and
read the articles of war. After a chase of seven hoursthe longest we
have hadwe came up with an English bark from Bahia for Liverpool.
Just at night we met, on the opposite tack an E
Shortened sail.	,	nglish (Maltese) brig.
	Monday, March 2.Weather fine, though somewhat hazy; wind light
from the northward. Soon after daylight wore ship to intercept a sail
on the starboard quarter. She proved to be the American ship John
A. Parks, of Hallowell, Me. Captured her, and after transferring o

Page 731

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	731

board such provisions and stores as we wanted, and the crew, set fire
to her about 4 p. m. Papers to the 10th February. Gratified to learn
the escape of tbe Florida. We have thus doubled ~ur means of destroy
ing the euemy~s commerce. Good news, too, of Ingrahams operations
off Charleston. Latitude 29~ 25, longitude 370 47.

Case of the ship John A Parks.

	Ship under United States colors and register. Cargo, white pine
lumber, laden on board at the port of New York. The cargo was shipped
by Edward F. Davidson, who appears, from the statement of the master,
to be a large lumber dealer, and is consigned to Messrs. Zimmerman,
Fairs &#38; Co., at Montevideo or Buenos Ayres. Annexed to the bill of
lading is what purports to be an affidavit sworn to before Pierrepont
Edwards, who signs himself as ~ Above his name are the
words By the consul, from which it appears be professes to act for
the consul, and not for himself as vice-consul. The affiant is Joseph
II. Snyder, who describes himself as of 128 Pearl street, N ew York.
He states that the cargo was shipped by Edward F. Davidson for and
on account of John Fairs &#38; Co., of London, etc. First as to the form
of this affidavit: A vice-consul is one who acts in place of a cousnl when
the latter is absent from his post; and, when this is the case, he signs
himself as vice-consul, and his acts take effect jproprio rigore, and not
as the acts of the consul, which this act purports to do. Further, the
master was unable to verify this document, which, to give it validity,
he should ha~ve been able to do, he declaring that he could not say
whether it was a forgery or not. Although, as has been said, the ships
papers found on board are proper evidence, yet they are so only when
properly verified; for papers by themselves prove nothing and are a
mere dead letter if they are not supported by the oaths of persons in a
situation to give them validity. (3d Phillimore, 394.) Further, Yalin
sur lOrdonnance says:

	II	y a plus, et parce quo los pi~cos en forme trouv6es ~i bord, pouvent encore
avoir 6t&#38; ~ concert6cs en fraude ii a 6t6 ordonn6 par arr~t de conseil d~ 26 Octobre,
1692, quo los d~positions contraires des gars do l~quipage pris, pr6vau-droit [pr6-
vaudrolent?] ~ ces pii~ces.

	The latter authority is express to the point that papers found on
board a ship are not to be credited if contradicted by the oath of any
of the crew, and I take it that an iuability to verify amounts to the
same thing. For if this had been a bona tide transaction it was the
duty of the party interested to take the master before the consul to
witness the taking of the deposition, so that lie might verify the
paper if captured. But why should Mr. Snyder be the party to make
this affidavit ~ He was not the shipper, but Davidson, a lumber dealer;
and Davidson, who,if he sold the lumber at all, must have known to
whom lie sold it, was the proper person to testify to the fact. Further,
the master says that Snyder bought the lumber from Davidson, as he
was informncd by his (the masters) brother, who was the owner of the
ship. If so, then Snyder, being the owner of the lumber (whether on
his own or foreign account it matters not), was time real shipper, and
not Davidson, and the proper person to consign it to the consignees,
either in his own nanme or tIme name of his principal if he were an agent.
But the bill of lading and Davidsons letter to the consignees show
that Davidson was both the shipper and the consignor. The ship was
also chartered by Davidson and $13,000 freight money paid in advance,
for which Davidson required the owner of the ship to secure him by 

Page 732

732 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.


policy of insurance against both marine and war risk, the policy made
payable to huin (Davidson) in case of loss. Two questions arise upon
this policy: First, why, if the property were bona f~ile neutral (the cargo
itself was also insnred, in London), the war clause should be inserted;
and, secondly, why Davidson should make the policy payable to him-
self. If he advanced this freight money on the credit of the London
house he had no insurable interest in it. And if the lumber really
belo4ed to the London house, and was going to their partners or
agents at the port of delivery, why should Davidson pay the freight in
advance at aIB And if Snyder purchased the lumber of Davidson,
why should Snyder not have made the advance for his principal, in-
stead of Davidson ~ The conclusion would seem to be that Davidson
was shipping this lumber on his own account to agents in whose hands
he had no funds or credits, and, as the lumber might not be sold readily,
the ship could not be paid her freight unless it were paid in advance.
Further, the shIp had a contingent destination. She was either to go
to Montevideo or Buenos Ayres, as the cousignees might find most
advantageous. This looks very much like hunting for a market. But
further still: Although Davidson prepares a formal letter of consign-
ment to Zimmerman, Fairs &#38; Co. to accompany the consular certificate,
he at the same time writes another letter, in which he says:

The cargo [of the] John A. Parks I shall have certified to by the British consul as
the property of British subjects. You will find it a very good cargo and should com-
mand the highest prices.

	How is Davidson interested in the price which this cargo will bring,
if it belongs~ as pretended, to the house in London I And if Davidson
sold to Snyder, and Snyder was the agent of the house in London,
Davidson should have still less concern with it. In this same letter, in
which a general account of recent lumber shipments is given, the fol-
lowing remarks occur:

	Messrs. Harbeck &#38; Co. have a new bark, Anne Sherwood, in Portland, for which
they have picked up in small lots a cargo [of] lumber, costing them $20 per M. ~
have tried to make an arrangement for it to go to you (on account of John Fairs &#38; 
Co., of London~) but they as yet only propose to do so, you taking one-half interest,
at $25 per M. and freight at $18, payable at your (port l), which is too much. If I
can arrange it on any fair terms I will do so for the sake of keeping up your corre-
spondence with H. &#38; Co.

	This letter would seem to show that Zimmerman, Fairs &#38; Co. are
favorite consignees with Davidson, and that he not only consigns his
own lumber to them (for it must be remembered that he is a lumber
dealer), but endeavors to befriend them by getting them other consign-
ments. It may be that Davidson in New York, John Fair &#38; Co. in
London, and Zimmerman, Fairs &#38; Co. in Buenos Ayres are all connected
in this lumber business, and that the trade is attempted to be covered
under the name of the London house, or it may be that Davidson is the
sole owner or a joint owner with Zimmerman, Fairs &#38; Co. In either
case the property is condemnable, and, being shipped by the house of
trade in the enemys country, ship and cargo condemned.
	P. S.See also bill of this lumber, as furnished the ship by Flint &#38; 
Hall,~~ on account of E. F. Davidson.
	Tuesday, March 3.Weather very fine, with the wind light from the
northward and westward. Last night we sent on board of the English
bark that passed near the burning prize Captain Cooper,his wife, and
two nephews for passage to England. Latitude 28~ 42, longitude
300 59 45.
	Wednesday, March 4.Standing to the southward under easy sail.
Latitude 27~ 2, longitude 350 41 30

Page 733

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	733

	Thursday, March 5.Latitude 260 4 5, longitude 350 23.
	Friday, March 6.At 110011 sent a boat on board of a Spanish brig
from Santander for Havana. Latitude 250 9, longitude 350 20.
	Saturday, March 7.At meridian sent a boat on board of an English
brig, from London for Bermuda. English papers indicate a quiet ses-
sion of Parliament. All parties seeni to be agreed to keep aloof from
the American war. The English people are looking on as amateurs on
a bnll fight. Latitude 24~ 30, longitude 350 12.
	Sunday, March 8.Chased two sail, the first a Norwegian bark and
the second an English schooner, both steering to the westward.
Showed them the United States colors. Latitude 220 36, longitude
340 32. In the afternoon chased a third, an English bark, to which
also we showed the United States colors. Weather clear with strong
breezes, apparently the trades. Whether the ships be going east or
west, we do not find many Yankees among theni.
	Monday, March 9.Latitude 200 22, longitude 330 53.
	Tuesday, March 10.Latitude 180 26, longitude 330 17. Ugly,
squally night, with a rough sea.
	Wednesday, March 11.The gale still continues, wind E. N. E. For
four days now we have been rolling and tumbling about, with the wind
roaring day and night through the rigging. Latitude 160 18, longi-
tude 320 36.
	Thursday, [March] 12.Clear, but hazy; wind still blowing a moder-
ate gale, and the ship still under close-reefed topsails. I am well to
the eastward, and have had no lack of wind. Latitude 130 57 24,
longitude 3J0 47. We are still wearing thick clothes and sleeping
under a couple of blankets. For the last five days we have had low-
flying trade clouds, occasionally discharging the merest sprinkle of
rain, and the sky beyond has been of a dull gray or leaden color, our
vision being circumscribed within 8 or 10 miles by the haze or gloom.
Nothing has been seen since the 8th, and, ~indeed, we could with diffi-
culty have boarded a vessel; so, perhaps, it is as well. The seaweed
has entirely disappeared, and a flying-fish is rarely seen.
	Friday, March 13.The wind has moderated somewhat, but the hazy
weather and gray sky continue. We ought to begin to see sails here-
about. Latitude 110 31 20, longitude 310 25.
	Saturday, March 14.Weather as for the last week; wind fresh from
the N. E., with a heavy sea; sky dull and gray, and humid clouds pass-
ing swiftly overhead. The barometer has been steadily falling (with
occasional slight risings and falhiiigs) for the last eight days, and is now
at 29.96, about the usual standard of the trade winds, the region of high
barometer being on the outer edge of the trade belts. It is getting a
little warm to-day, though the gauze-like gray curtain interposed
between us and the sun prevents his heat from being at all oppressive.
Latitude 90 24 18, longitude 310 48.
	Sunday, March 15.Last night, at ten minutes before 12, the cry of
Sail ho! close aboard, was suddenly heard from one of the lookouts,
and in five minutes more (owing to the obscurity of the night) we were
within hailing distance of a large ship, standing on a wind to the north-
ward and westward. Onr hail not being answered, we wore ship (for
our head was in the contrary direction), turned the double reefs out of
the topsails, and made sail in chase. By the time we got sail and head-
way on the ship the stranger was some 3 miles ahead. At 3:15 a. m.
came within a few hundred yards of the chase and hove her to with
a blank cartridge from the bow gun. She proved to be the American
ehip Punjaub, of Boston, from Calcutta for London, and having a

Page 734

734 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

English cargo on board, as appeared from the sworn affidavits among
the papers and from the nature of the voyage (from one ]3ritish ort
to another) and the cargojute and linseedsh~ was released on ran-
som bond for 55,000. Put on board of her the prisoners from the
last prize burned, and at daylight made sail to the southward and
eastward. Wind light, and weather cloudy and hazy. Latitude
8~ 36 18, longitude 310 43 30.
	Monday, March 1G.Weather semiclear and hazy. Soon after day-
light a sail was descried in the E. S. E. Made sail in chase, and at 8 a.
m. showed United States colors to the English ship ifennione, from
Mauritius for Cork. XVind light from the N. B., and the heavy sea
which we have had for the last twelve days subsiding. Exercised the
crew firing at target with rifles. Latitude 70 46, longitude 30~ 21 45.
The Yankee ships seems to have avoided the usual track, the Punjaub
reporting that she boarded one, bound to Brazil, near the line, in longi-
tude 230. This is to avoid the turning point of San Roque.
	Tuesday, March 17.Wind light from N. E., weather hazy and sky
gray. Standing off and on our position of yesterday, in the usual
track of outward-bound vessels, but no luck as yet. ~t. Patricks day,
spliced the main brace. Latitude 70 53 49, longitude 300 34 45.
	Wednesday, March 18.Latitude 70 14 50, longitude 290 26 27.
	Thursday, March 19.Latitude 50 59, longitude 280 1 45.
	Friday, March 20.Latitude 40 32, longitude 27g.
	Saturday, March 21.Cloudy, with squalls of rain, and the wind
shifting, indicating that we are losing the trades. It was pleasant
to hear the thunder roll, for the first time in several months, sounding
like the voice of an old friend, and the crew seemed to enjoy a ducking
from the heavy showers, these being a novelty. Just before noon a
couple of sail were discovered in the N. B. Wore ship and stood for
them. Nearly calm. Latitude 20 47 30, longitude 260 23 30. In
one hour afterwards a third sail was descried. These vessels were all
standing to the southward. Gave chase, amid at nightfall showed the
United States colors to the nearest of the three sail (a ship), which
responded with the Dutch colors.
	Sunday, March 22.Latitude 20 1130, longitude 260 24. No obser-
vation for latitude for two days. Rains and calms all day; officers and
crew alike paddling about the decks in their bare feet and enjoying the
pelting of the rain like young ducks. Just at nightfall (a breeze having
sprung up from the N. W.) we came up with and showed United States
colors to an English bark, another of the three sail we saw yesterday.
The third was still to leeward and some distance ahead, but as she had
kept company with us a day and a night I take it for granted that she
is not United States.
	Monday, March 23.At 8:30 a sail reported one point on the port
bow (head S. S. B. ~ B.). Made sail. Barometer 29.85. At meiidian
came up with and captured the U. S. ship Morning Star, of Boston,
froum Calcutta for London. As this ship was bound from one neutral
port to another, and as her cargo was regularly documented as neutral,
I released her on ransom bond. Latitude 2~ 8 10, longitude 260
8 45. In the afternoon the weather became clear and bright.
Chased and caine up with a topsail schooner just at nightfall. She
proved to be the U. S. whaling schooner Kin qftsher, of Fairhaven, Mass.
Brought the crew oim board, took out some provisions, cordage, etc.,
and burned her. She had a crew of 23 persons, all Portuguese, except
the master, mate, and one or two others. The master was an old man,
who told me that he was one of the only three persons in Fairhaven
who voted for Breckinridge, etc

Page 735

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	735

	Tuesday, March 24.-At 10 a. in. three sail in sight. Showed United
States colors to a Spanish ship; showed same colors to an English ship.
Latitude 10 41 10, longitude 260 13 45.
	Wednesday, March 25.lu the forenoon sent a boat on board of an
English bark and an English brig, and got some English newspapers,
but no news from the States later than we had already received. The
abolition societies in England are bestirring themselves in support of
President Lincolns proclamation. Just at nightfall we caine up with
two ships, both of which proved to be United States, one ~iie Charles
Hill, of Boston, from Liverpool for Montevideo, and the other the Nora,
of Boston, from Liverpool for Calcutta. Captured theni both, and
commenced removing from them such articles of stores (coal included)
as we needed. Engaged at this all night. Chased also and sent a
boat on board of a Sardinian bark, which had becim represented by one
of the crew of the captured vessels as Yankee. Latitude 10 22, longi-
tude 260 8 30.

Case of the Charles Hill.

	Ship under United States flag and register, laden with salt (value in
Liverpool, 6 shillings per ton), under charter party with II. E. l~alk to
proceed from Liverpool to Montevideo or Buenos Ayres. No claim of
neutral property in the cargo. Ship and cargo condemned.

Case of the Nora

	Ship under United States flag and register, laden with salt, under
charter party with W. N. de Mattos, of London, to proceed to Calcutta.
In the bill of lading the cargo is consigned to order, and on the back
of the bill is this endorsement:

	I hereby certify that the salt shipped on board the Nora is the property of W. N.
de Mattos, of London, and that the said W. N. de Mattos is a British subject, and
was so at the time of shipment.	H. E. FALK,

Agent for If. N. de Afattos.

	At the bottom of this signature is R. C. Gardner, Mayor, presumed
to be intended for the signature of the mayor of Liverpool. As this
statement is not under oath, and as there is no seal attached to it,
it does not even amount to an cx jpartc affidavit. Vessel and cargo
condemned.
	Thursday, March 2G.Cloudy, calm, light airs, and rainy. Engaged
all day in transporting coal and provisions from the two piizes. Hav-
ing completed this, soon after nightfall, got the prisoners on board (a
woman among the number), and about 9 p. m. fired the two ships.
Calm for several hours. Latitude 10 12 49, longitude 260 32 45.
	Friday March, 27.Shipped half a dozen seamen from among the
prisoners. Several of my rascals have gotten drunk as usual, when
they can get liquor on board the prizes, which they do sometimes, in
spite of all precautions, and these are sometimes my best men, who
can be trusted with everything but whisky. The following is the copy
of a letter found on board the Charles Hill:

BOSTON, October 18, 1862.
	DEAR SIR: I have received your several letters from Philadelphia. As a rebel
privateer has burned several American ships, it may be well if you can have your
bills of lading endorsed as English property, and have your cargo certified to by
the English consul.
	Captain F. PERCIVAL

Page 736

OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	The burning ships are still in sight, advertising our whereabouts for
30 miles around in a column of smoke.
	Saturday, March 28.The line weather still co~tinues, viz, light airs
and rain. At 11 a. m. sent a boat ou board of an English bark. The
average range of the barometer in the equatorial calm belt has been
about 29.90. Latitude 46, longitude 260 19.
	Sunday, March 29.Latitude 18 N., longitude 260 10. Crossed the
equator at 5 p. m. in the midst of a dense raiii squall, with lowering
black cloujls and wind from the S. W. In chase of a sail, but we lost
her in the gloom.
	Monday, March 30.At 10 a. in. sent a boat on board of an English
bark; a French ship also in sight. Experienced a S. E. current at the
rate of a knot aiid a half aii hour for the last twenty-four hours.
Latitude 34 S., longitude 25~ 35 15.
	Tuesday, March 31.A flat calm for the last twenty-four hours,
indeed, for the last thirty hours; in this time the ship having been
marked 1~ miles. In the meantime, we have drifted again 20 miles about
S. E. by E. ~ E. Two English barks and one French ship in sight.
Latitude 39, longitude 25~ 19.
	Wednesday, April 1.Latitude 10 23 S., longitude 250 20 W.
	Thursday, April 2.A sail, some 10 miles ahead of us S. by W.
Latitude 20 10 51, longitude 26~ 2.
	Friday, April 3.The wind this morning hauled round to S. W. and
blew very fresh in a squall for several hours, accompanied with rain.
About noon the thick weather shut out from view a ship we were chas-
ing ahead S. by E. Latitude ~ 52, longitude 25~ 58. In the after-
noon a steady rain set iii, the weather becoming so obscure that we
had scarcely a horizon of a mile. Although the chase was not more
than a mile or two ahead of us, we sometimes lost sight of her for an
hour at a time. At 5:30 we canine up with and boarded the chase,
which proved to be a Frenchman.
	Saturday, April 4.At 9 a. in. gave chase to a ship, in pursuit of
which we continued all day. At 8:30 p. um., having neared the chase
within a couple of miles, and the wind becoming light, dispatched a
whaleboat to board her, she having shown the United States colors
just before sunset. The boat reached her about 10 p. m. and wore her
round and ran down under our lee. ~he proved to be the Louisa Hatch,
of Rockland, Me., from Cardiff, with coal, for Point de Galle. Latitude
30 12 4, longitude 260 9 45.

Case of the Louisa Hatch.

	Ship under United States colors and register. Among the papers is
a charter 1)arty, dated London, 1st January, 1863, executed between
John Pine &#38; Co. and William Grant, the master, by which the ship was
chartered to take coal to Point de Galle, Ceylon, or Singapore, as
ordered, etc. Without any assignment of this contract, as far as
appears, the ship seems to have been loaded by entirely new parties,
to wit, by one J. It. Smith, who describes himnself as the agent of Hip-
polyte Worms, of Cardiff. By the bill of lading the ship is to proceed
to Point de Galle and there deliver the coal to the company of Mes-
sageries Iinp&#38; ~riales. On the back of the bill of lading is the following
certificate:

	I certify that the within cargo is French property, having been shipped by order
for thc account of the Messageries Imp~ria1es.
	This certificate is signed by Mr. Smith, but is not sworn to, nor is
the order or any copy of the order to ship this cargo to and on accoun

Page 737

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.
7~7
of the Messageries Imp~riales found among the papers. As the ship
was not chartered by any agent of this company, and as the coal was
not shipped by any such agent, Smith being th~ agent of Worms, and
Worms not being described as the ageiit of the company, the presump-
tion is that if there was any order at all in the case, it was a mere gen-
eral understanding that the company would pay so much per ton for
coal delivered to them at their depots, the property remaining in the
shippers until delivery. The presumption, in the absence of proof; is
that this cargo, being on board an American ship, is American, shipped
on speculation to the far East by the owner or his agent in Cardiff;
and we have seen that there is no legal evidence in the case, the
unsworn certificate of Mr. Smith not even amounting to an ex parte
affidavit. Ship and cargo condemned. Probable value of cargo in
Cardiff, $2,500. Cost of coal in Brazil, $15 to $17 per ton.
	Sunday, April 5.Weather fine, with the wind light from south.
Prize in company. At 10 a. m. showed United States colors to an
English bark, from Lisbon for Rio. Mustered the crew and read the
articles of war. Latitude 30 25 15, longitnde 27~ 4.
	Monday, April G.Morniimg beautiful and clear. Soon after break-
fast I was induced to get up steam on the representation that we had
passed a Yankee whaling schooner to windward of us. 0-ave chase,
and almost immediately the weather became dirty, with rain squalls,
obscuring everything at intervals. I chased the supposed whaler
(running away from the prize, and anxious lest I should lose her in the
thick weather~ some 14 miles and came up with a little green-painted
Portuguese. Latitude 30 46, longitude 280.
	Tuesday, April 7.One of the most temper-trying of the contretemps
of a seamans life is, when your position is such as to render your lati-
tude very important to you, to have a rain squall come up just before it
is time to look out for the sun, and to rain and obscure everything
until it is a very [few] minutes too late for you, and then to have the sun
shine out brightly, as if in mockery of your baffled desire. Such was
the case to-day, this being the second day we are without an observa-
tion for latitude. But I endeavor to profit by these trials, as they teach
me a lesson of humility. What is man, that the sun should shine for
him l And then, in our stupidity, we fail to see things in their true
light; all the occurrences of nature, being in obedience to wise laws,
must, of course, be the best. Latitude 30 57, longitude 300 7 30.
	Wednesday, April 8.Rain, rain~ rain, nearly all last night, and
pouring this morning. Sometimes the prize, only half to three-fourths
of a mile off, lost to view in the thick gloom. Atmosphere inelastic,
warm, and exceedingly oppressive. Just before noon the sun showed
himself through his humid veil of clouds, and I was lucky enough to
get latitude the first time in three days. Latitude 40 1 37, longitude,
P. R., 310 17. Current about S. W. by W., at the rate of 1~ knots
per hour. We had a deluge of rain during the night, with the wiud
shifting to all points of the compass, and a squall from the S. W. Lost
sight of the prize after 10 p. m.
	Thursday, April 9.Rain until 4 a. in., when it cleared and the sun
rose and beat down upon us with great force as the day advanced; air
humid and oppressive; calm. Thought we saw the land, but are not
sure- saw the prize soon after daylight, and made two other sail. Cur-
rent S. W. by W., 1 knot per hour. Getting things dry after the deluge.
Latitude 40 8, longitude 320 1.
	Friday, April 10.After a tedious delay, arising from calms and light
and baffling winds, I got up steam last night and took the prize in tow,
N W R~VOL u4

Page 738

738 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

and at the same time started a couple of boats to coaling to guard
against contingencies. But the coalin did iiot succeed, and after
receiving about 5 tons we discontinued it. The lowest speed we
could give the ship was too great to warp the boats against, and so
whenever a boat was ready to be hauled on board we were obliged to
stop the engine. We soon began to part our towlines by these stop-
pages and starting, and it took a long time to get the line fast again;
and so after a sleepless night, during which, as I lay in my cot trying
to sleep, it seemed as if a dozen Stentors on deck were rivaling each
other in makii~g the night hideous, I sent word to get the boats run up
again and to continue our course to Fernando de Noronha without inter-
ruption. At daylight we made two peaks of the island a long way off,
some 38 or 40 miles, and in the afternoon, at 2:30, we came to, with the
peak bearing S. W. 4- S. and the northeast end of Rat Island N. E. by
E. 4- E.; depth of water, 134- fathoms. Anchored the prize near us.
But for our steam, we should have been still drifting to the S. W., as
the day has been nearly calm throughout. Fernando de Noronha, on
the wayside of the commerce of all the world, is sighted by more ships
and visited by fewer than [any] other spot of earth. It is a broken,
picturesque volcanic rock in mid ocean, covered with a pleasing coat of
verdure, including trees of some size, and the top of the main island is
cultivated in small farms, etc. Awfully hot when the sun shines, and,
indeed, when he does not shine. Just after dark hauled the prize along-
side and commenced coaling.
	Saturday, April 11.Last night the two ships lay alongside of each
other so roughly, and we received so much damage (our forechannels
being crushed in and maintopsail yard carried away) that we were
compelled to haul the prize off and continue coaling by means of our
boats. The authorities on shore having hoisted no colors, we have not
set onrs to-day. We were visited this morning by a couple of gentle-
men from the shore bearing a lettei~ from the governor in reply to an
enquiry which I had caused the paymaster to address to him on the
subject of supplies. Their interpreter very naively informed me that
he was a German, who had been sentenced to banishment here from Rio,
and that he had a year and a half to serve. This was said while my
servant was drawing the cork of a champagne bottle, the forger (for
such was his offense) taking his glass of wine with the rest. The gov-
ernor informed me that I could procure supplies of beef fresh pork,
fowls, etc., and that he would be glad to exchange these articles with
me for flour, wine, sugar, coiThe, etc. I was glad to find that he raised
no question of neutrality, though he had no doubt been informed by a
boats crew from the shore that got the information on board that the
ship in my company was a prize. He kindly invited me to visit the
shore. During the night (1 oclock) we had a surprise in the way of a
strange steamer making her appearance, coming round the point of Rat
Island. I had all hands called to quarters and the battery got ready,
fires stirred, and chain ready for slipping. Although she caine within
a mile of us, with the intention, as we thought, of coming to anchor, she
kept on her conrse to the southward, and we piped down, the men, much
fagged from coaling, not having lost more than half an hours rest by
the operation.
	Sunday, April 12.The exigencies of war compel me to work to-day
in coaling ship. Weather clear, and very hot (luring the morning,
clouding about noon, and raining very heavily for several hours. I
visited the island this morning in company with the surgeon and called
on the governor. The surf was too heavy to land in our boat, but w

Page 739

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	739

found a balsa moored a short distance from the shore, and, transferring
ourselves to this, we were very skillfully put through the surf by three
01 four naked fellows, two of them not even haviug~ breechcloth about
their loins. Fine, well-made fellows they were, too. We found horses
in waiting, and rode about a mile to the village and residence of the
governor, a major in the Brazilian army, passing an immense sand drift,
which we had not expected to find on this volcanic rock. We found
the governor at breakfast, and he insisted upon our seating ourselves
and making a second breakfast with ~im,in company with his wife
a sprightly, bright mulattoand a pretty girl, quite white, of about
16, and the padre. After breakfast we were introduced to a number
of what appeared to be the gentry of the island, and who had assem-
bled thus early to meet us. Having smoked and chatted awhile, we
remounted for a ride over the island. We were not in the saddle more
than twenty minutes when one of those showers so sudden iii this cli-
mate overtook us, and gave us a complete drenching. We had other
showers during the day, but we were compensated by the sun hiding
himself during onr entire ride. We passed under the shadow of the
gigantic peak, and soon reached the summit of the island, which
spreads out into a most beautiful and productive plain of some 200
or 300 acres. The soil is a frnginous [frugiferous] clay of the richest
description, and covered with the densestof vegetation, of wild grapes,
Indian corn, the cotton plant, the.castor bean, etc. We stopped a few
minutes to examine a manioc manufactory. Continuing our ride, we
passed through a small but dense forest to a cocoanut plantation in
the southwestern part of the island, where we found the watermelon
growing in rts choice soil, sand. Here we took simelter agaimi from
another heavy rain and got some fine grapes. While waiting for the
shower to pass I had quite a talk with the governor on various
topics, among others on the state of the mixed races imi Brazil, slavery,
etc. The island at the season at which we visited it was a gem of
picturesque beauty, exceedingly broken and diversified with dells and
rocks and small streams, etc. It was the middle of the rainy season.
The little mountain paths as we returned became little brooks, that
hummed and purled on their rapid course. I took pains to inform his
Excellency that my tender was a prize, so that he might be under no
misapprehension. Number of convicts, 1,000; whole number of popu.
lation, 2,000. The governor expressed himself our very good friend,
etc. Got on board about 5 p. mu.
	Monday, April 13.Another rainy day; showers very heavy, but
still we continue our coaling. Wind fromn the northward and west.
ward, and, though light, there is considerable sea on. The bad weather
continued all day, and the night having set in with threatening appear-
ances 1 caused everybody to be brought on board from the prize, to
guard against the possibility of her being driven on shore and endan-
gering life. I had the steam got up and the chain ready for slipping,
and was fearful that I should be, obliged to slip, but we held on during
the night. Night very dark, with heavy rain and munch sea on.
	Tuesday, April 14.Wind this morning from about W. S. W.; weather
still lowering. Our friends came off from the shore again this morn-
ing, bringing the fresh provisions ordered for the crew. Everything is
very dear here, meat 40 cents per pound, but still my crew has been so
long on salt diet that fresh is an antiscorbutic necessity for them. I
have arranged to sell 40 or more tons of coal for a Brazilian schooner
there is in the harbor, and had a proposition for purchasing the prize

Page 740

740 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

which I offered to sell as low as $20,000, but this sum alarmed them,
they saying that there was not so much money in Fernando de Noronha.
Continued our coaling.
	Wednesday, April 15.Weather clear, wind light from the eastward.
Finished coaling ship this morning. At about 11 a. in. a couple of
whaleboats from two vessels in the offing pulled into the harbor, went
on board our prize, and thence to the shore. Although the two masters
were told that we were the Iroquois, they seemed at once to have com-
prehended the true state of the case, and to have made haste to put
themselves out of harms way. We were an hour and more getting up
steam and weighing our anchor for the chase, and if; in the meantime,
these whaling captains had pulled out to their ships and run them to
the shore, so as to get within the league, they might have saved them.
We gave chase, and came up to them both on the south side of the island,
about half-past 3 p. in., and captured them both, both of them being
without the league; one, the hermaphrodite brig Kate Gory, of West-
port, and the other the bark Lafayette, of New Bedford. The bark we
burned, and the brig we brought in to the anchorage, arriving after
darkabout 7p. m. We sounded in 13 fathoms on a bank on the south
side, on the southern extremity of which there is a breaker lying out
about 2~ to 3 miles. There is also a reef off Tobacco Point, running
out half a mile. We saw no other dangers. Our prize illumined the
heavens nearly all night, and threw up a lengthy column of smoke next
day. No papers were found on board the bark Lafayette.
	Thursday, April 16.Weather clear, wind light from the southward
and eastwar~l. Our banner of last night, a lurid flame, is a tall column
of smoke, advertising us for 25 or 30 miles around. My first intention
was to ship all my prisoners, amounting to about 110, in the prize brig,
but the governor having consented to my landing them I am busy to-day
getting them on shore, with their baggage and provisions, and receiving
provisions from the Louisa Hatch. Sun very warm. The governor paid
me a visit this morning and requested that I would write him on the
subject of the captures yesterday, stating the fact (with which he was
satisfied, or at least to which he made no ob.jection) that they were cap-
tured beyond the league from the land, and requesting permission to
land the prisoners, iii order that our understanding should assume an
official shape, which I did.
	Friday, April 17.The weather still continues very warm; wind light
from the S. E., and cloudy. Busy receiving and stowing away pro-
visions, replacing the coal consumed, and getting ready for sea gener-
ally. Sent up the new main topsail yard and bent the sail. The landing
of so many prisoners amid so small a population has created great
excitement, and the excitable Brazilians are discussing among them-
selves and with the Yankee captains the question of the American war
with great vehemence. Several sail have been reported, as usual. The
afternoon set in rainy, and the rain continued at intervals all night.
Toward nightfall sent the two prizes, Louisa Hatch and Kate Gory, a
league outside the island and burned them. Received four recruits
from the Louisa Hatch and more volunteered, but if am full.
	Saturday, April 18.Morning cloudy, with the wind light from the
S. E. Loosed sails to-day. I am anxiously expecting the arrival of the
Agrippina, my storeship, from England, which was ordered to rendez-
vous here; not so anxiously, however, as if my coal bunkers were
empty. But she has a couple of additional guns on board that would
make an important addition to my battery. Afternoon showery

Page 741

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.
741
	Sunday, April 19.Rain in the morning, with light airs and calms
Our steam tubes are leaking badly, and I am afraid the leaks will
increase so as to give us trouble. Every time weget up steam, even a
few pounds for condensing water, we find that large quantities of hot
water flow into the hold; 8 inches escaped in about twelve hours yes-
terday. Unfortunately, too, this tubing is laid so low in the bottom of
the ship as to be out of reach for ex~mination or repairs without being
taken up. The governor sent me off a fine turkey and some fruit, and
his lady a bouquet of roses. The roses were very sweet, and made me
homesick for awhile.
	Monday, April 20.A dull, heavy, rainy day. the rain coming down
at intervals in torrents, as it is wont to do in this region. Still lying
at our anchors, waiting for the Agrippina. She should be out thirty-
five days to-day from CardifL In the afternoon the rain ceased ,except
an occasional light sprinkle, but the dull canopy of clouds did not
break, and we had a strong breeze from the S. E. for four or five hours,
indicating the approach of the trade to this latitude.
	Tuesday, April 21.Morning clear, but not bright; wind light from
the S. E. The island, after the rain, is blooming in freshness and ver-
dure, and as my eye roams over its green slopes amid vales, looking so
peaceful and inviting, I long for the repose and quiet of peace in my
own land. I do not think it cau be far off. Fresh trade in the
afternoomi. Toward night the Brazilian schooner sailed with a load of
our prisoners.
	Wednesday, April 22.Cloudy, with squalls of rain. At 9: 30 a. in.
got under wy, under steam, and stood to the eastward. Cut away
four whaleboats that the islanders might have a scramble for them.
They soon started in chase. Steamed dne east abont 45 miles, ]et the
steam go down, and put the ship under sail. No sail seen.
	Thursday, April 23.Morning rainy and squally, weather clearing
somewhat as the day advanced. Wind light from about E. S. E. We
have seen no sail for three days in the vicinity of Fernando de Noronha,
which is quite remarkable. Latitude 40 42 12, longitude 31~ 49.
Some westerly current. Made a sail in the afternoon, and tacked and
chased for about an hour, but abandoned the chase about 4 p. in., she
being too far to windward.
	Friday, April 24.At 2 a. m. wore ship in chase of a sail close aboard,
and in the course of an hour fired a blank cartridge and came up with
the U. S. whaling bark Nye, of New Bedford, out thirty-one months,
with 425 barrels sperm and 75 barrels whale oil. Captured her, brought
her crew on board, consisting of twenty-four persons, and at 7 a. in.
fired her and filled away on our course. She had been eleven months
without going into port. Latitude 50 45 15, longitude 310 53.
Among our prisoners is a former lieutenant of marines from Pennsyl-
vania. He was steward of the whaler. Westerly current of about 15
miles.
	Saturday, April 25.Lati.tude 60 22 11, longitude 310 44.
	Sunday, April 26.Latitude 70 36 50, longitude 310 57. At 1:30
gave chase to a sail to the northward and eastward, and at 3 p. n.
passed within a couple pf muiles to leeward of a ship which refused to
show colors, although we had the United States colors flying. Tacked
ship, and having gained somnewhat on the chase, fired a blank charge
from a bow gun, which brought her to. She finally showed United
States colors, and proved to be the ship Doreas Prince, of and from
New York, bound for Shanghai, out forty-four days and only three or
four newspapers on board, all of the same date. As we had been som

Page 742

742 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

seventy days without news, this was a disappointment. Got on board
from the prize some provisions and stores, trai~sferred the prisoners
(twenty), and at 11:30 p. m. fired her and filled away. The master had
liis wife on board, not an uncommon case, much to our annoyance.

Ca8e of the Dorca8 Prince.

	Ship under United States colors and register; no claim of neutral
property among the papers; ship and cargo condemned. Cargo chiefly
coal, probably for the United States ships of war in the East Indies.
	Monday, April 27.Latitude 80 16 57, longitude 320 18 45. Exer-
cised at quarters.
	Tuesday, April 28.Latitude 8~ 19, longitude 31~ 40 30.
	Wednesday, April 29.Latitude 80 22 42, longitude 310 7/ 4511 1
think we are a little too far to the eastward, and so I will run to the
westward and try luck. In the afternoon overhauled and boarded a
Hanoverian brig, from the Rio Grande for England.
	Thursday, April 30.Latitude 90 2 26, longitude 310 39 15.
	Friday, May 1.Weather fine and clear, wind light from northward
and eastward; sea smooth. During the forenoon overhauled an Eng-
lish brig and an Austrian brig. The former was twenty-nine days from
St. John, New Brunswick, and we got Nova Scotia papers to the 1st of
April. The Yankees show no signs of relaxing in the prosecution of
the war. By the meager telegraphic dispatches through Yaiikee sources
we learn that Farragut has been badly defeated in aii attack on Port
Hudson. Latitude 90 17 18, longitude 32~ 17 30.
	Saturday, ~May 2.Weather flue and bright, but warm; wind light
from the S. E.; sea smooth. This is an anniversary with memy
marriage day. Alas! this is the third anniversary since I was separated
from my fami]y by this Yankee war. And the destruction of 50 of
their ships has been but a small revenge for this great privation. Lati-
tude 90 37 13, longitude 320 34 30.
	Sunday, May 3.At 11 a. m. gave chase to a bark, which we came up
with in about an hour and a half. She proved to be the bark Union
Jack, of Boston. Captured her and stood in chase of a ship, which we
overhauled in about an hour. She proved to be the Sea Lark, of New
York. Captured her. The former of these prizes was bound for Shang-
haiand the latter for San Francisco. At 7:30 p.m., having transferred
the crews of the two ships, we fired them and stood on our course.
There were three women and two infants in one of these ships ( Union
Jack), the master of which seemed to be a genuine Plymouth Rock
man, taking his family to Shanghai to reside. Latitude 90 39, longi-
tude 32~ 44. There was no claim of neutral property a~nong the papers
of either of these ships, except in the case of one Allen Hay, who was
the shipper of 5 cases of crackers and 10 barrels of butter on board
the Union Jack, and in this case a Thomas W. Lillie made oath before
the British consul at New York that the said articles were shipped
for and on account of subjects of her Britannic Majesty. This cer-
tificate was of no rorce or effect for its indefiniteness, as decided in
other cases. A claim of property must point out the owner or owners,
and not aver that it belongs to the subjects of a natioii generally.
There must be some one designated who has the right to the possession
of the property under the bill of lading. Certificate set aside and ship
and cargo condemned.
	Monday, May 4.Overhauled during the day a Spanish and a Mon-
tevidean brig. Latitude 8~ 48 51, longitude 32~ 34 30

Page 743

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	743

	Tuesday, May 5.At 8:20 a. in. showed the United States colors to a
Spanish brig. We have dates by the late captures up to the 27th of
March. The Yankee papers appear to be jubilant~t the state of affairs,
especially at the prospect of our being starved. Latitude 100 6,
longitude 32~ 45 45.
	Wednesday, May 6.Latitude 10~ 24 45, longitude 32~ 30 30.
	Thursday, May 7.Latitude 120 8 22, longitude 330 7. One of
the passengers captured on board the Union Jack proves to be the Rev.
Franklin Wright, late editor of a religious paper aud consul to Foo-
Chow by recent appointment. I have detained his appoiutment aud
other public papers to prevent him from entering upon the performance
of his functions.
	Friday, May 8.At 1 p. m. sent a boat on board a Norwegian brig,
from Newcastle for Rio de Janeiro, sixty-two (lays out. Latitude 12~ 30
49, longitude 330 52.
	Saturday, May 9.Latitude 190 55 50, longitude 340 49. In the
afternoon showed United States colors to an English hermaphrodite
brig, steering N. E.
	Sunday, May 10.Boarded a Danish bark after nightfall. Latitude
l3~ 29 35, longitude 30~ 7 45.
	Monday, May 11.Showed the United States colors to a Spanish
brig. In the afternoon, about 5 p. in., ran in and anchored iii the har.
bor of Bahia, in 10 fathoms water, with Fort do Mar bearing N. E. ~
distant about half a mile. A Portuguese steamer the only vessel of war
found here. No Yankee men-of war had been here in some months.
The health officer came on board Just at nightfall. The Agrippina not
here, and I tegin to fear that some disaster has befallen her.
	Tuesday, May 12.Weather rainy. This morning the president sent
a messenger to me with a copy of the Diario de Bahia of the 8th of
May, in which appears a sort of proclamation or request addressed to
me by the president of Pernambuco, desiring that I would Leave Fer-
nando de Noronha in twenty-four hours after the receipt of the same.
This paper seems to be based upon certain false statements carried to
Pernamnbuco by the Yankee prisoners whom I had sent to that place.
It is alleged that I violated the neutrality of the island, etc. I replied
to the president here that there was no truth in this statement, but that,
on the contrary. I had paid scrupulous respect to the neutrality of
Brazil. In reply to my communication the president informed me that
I should be admitted to the usual hospitalities of the port, but the
bearer of his dispatch took occasion to say that he hoped I would not
delay more than three or four days, as the president was afraid of being
compromised in some way. The master of an English bark came on
board amid informed me that he had coal and provisions for the C. S. S.
Japan [Georgia], which was to muect him here on the 6th instant.
	Wednesday, May 13.Weather rainy. Early this morning a strange
steamer was discovered at anchor about half a muile from us, and at 8
a. in., when we hoisted our colors, to our great surprise and delight, she,
too, hoisted the Confederate flag. We then exchanged the established
signals, and, upon sending a boat on board of her, we ascertained that
she was the Georgia, Lieutenant Commanding [W. L.] Maury. [11. T.]
Chapman and [W. E.J Evans, two of my Sumter lieutenants, were on
board of her. The Georgia sailed from England about the 2d of April
and armed at Ushamit. Our ship has been crowded with visitors ever
since we came inn.
	Thursday, May 14.M orning cloudy and rainy, weather clearing about
noon. At 12:15, with a party of officers from the Georgia and my ow

Page 744

744 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

ship, I took a steam tug and proceeded up the harbor to the railroad
depot, at the invitation of the manager of the ro~d, for an excursion
into the country, which proved to be very pleasant. We passed along
the whole front of Bahia, the lower town skirting the water and the
upper town the crest of a semicircular height, the intermediate space
being fine trees and shrubbery. The houses are mostly white and many
of them very picturesque. The depot of the road is a tasteful and spa-
cious iron building, situated in the middle of a green square, and the
road itself is a very substantial job. We rode out 24 miles through a
picturesque country, the road bordered for most of the way by the bay
and lagoons and bayous, with beautiful little valleys occasionally open-
ing on either hand, with their patches of sugar cane and cotton. On
our return we sat down to a bountiful lunch, with champagne. Our
hosts were attentive and agreeable, and we returned on board at dusk
after a very pleasant day. The English residents here have been ver
attentive to us. Our tug man, who was a Thames waterman, dodged in
and out among the launches and vessels in a way that only a Thamnes
man could do. The French mail steamer came in to-day and brought
us news that the Florida was at Pernambuco.
	Friday, May 15.Weather fine. This morning a person in citizens
dress came on board and said that the president had requested himn to
ask nine to show him my commission. I replied that I could have no
objeetmon to show my commission, but it mnust be to an officer of mny
own rank, and that this officer must come on board in his ummiform for the
purpose; that I could not show my commuission to any person who mnight
[come] on board in citizens dress, bringing me a mere verbal message,
and without any credentials of his rank, etc. I remarked, however,
that it would give me pleasure to call on the president myself amid
exhibit it. To this he readily assented, amid having appointed an hour
for the interview, I wemint on shore, accompanied by my aid, and had a
long and agreeable imiterview with Imis Excellency, who was a man of
about 35 years of age, tall and delicate looking, with black eyes and
hair. We discussed various points on the subject of neutral and bel-
ligerent rights, etc., and I took the occasion to repeat to him the assur-
ances I had previously given him in my letter, that I had paid due
attention to the neutral rights of Brazil during my visit to Fer-
nando de Noronha islands. I told him I only desired him to extend
to me and to the Georgia the same hospitahities that he would extend to
a Federal cruiser, but that I innight say to him as an individual that we
were in fact fighting the battle of Brazil on the slavery question, etc.,
and that we were entmtled to warm sympathies of Brazil, etc. I
arranged about coaling Georgia and this ship by means of launches, as
there [were] port objections to the ship being hauled alongside. He
seemed anxious that our stay should be as short as possible, lest our
delay might compromise his neutrality in some way. He said that my
sailors had been behaving very badly on shore, and indeed I knew they
had. I told him he would oblige mue by seizing the rioters and putting
them iii prison. This evening we were entertained very handsomely
at the residence of Mr. Ogilvie, where we mnet all the English society
of the place.
	Saturday, ]ILay 16.Captain Maury and myself dined with Mr. Patee.
This morning the ship (Castor) from which the Georgia was coaling was
ordered to be hauled off, and the operation suspended, the Yankee
consul having alleged to the government that she had munnitions of
war on board

Page 745

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	745

	ASunday, May 17.This morning an officer came on board and read
me a dispatch from the president, expressing displeasure at my remain-
ing so long in the port, and directing me to procee~ to sea in twenty-
four hours. The same paper was read on board the (Jeorgia. I replied
that the government itself had caused onr delay by prohibiting us
from coaling from the ship from which we had purchased our coal, and
that I could go to sea in twenty-four hours after this prohibition was
removed, etc. A party of English gentlemen and ladies visited the
ship this afternooii. We were crowded all day, besides, with miscella-
neous visitors.
	Monday, May 18.Waiting patiently the decision of the authorities
as to the coal ship Castor.
	Tuesday, May 19.This morning, at the request of the president, I
went on shore to see him, and we had a long and animated (liscussion,
in which he stated that he had certain proofs, adduced by the U. S. con-
sul, to the effect that the coal ship Castor had been sent here to meet
us, etc., and that under these circumstances (the ship being charged,
besides, with having munitions of war on board) he felt it his duty to
prevent us from coaling from her, but that we might have free access to
the market, etc. The dirty little consul, too, had told him that I had
shipped one of the prisoners after landing him, the fact being that,
although many of them volunteered, I refused to receive any of them,
having already a full crew on board. In the afternoon I addressed a
letter to the president, insisting upon the right to coal from the Castor.
	Wednesday, May 20.We were promised lighters with coal from the
shore this morning, but none has yet come offhalf past 12. Just at
nightfall a hi~hter of coal came alongside, and during the night we
filled up.
	Thursday, May 21.Cloudy, with squally weather during the after-
noon. At 12 m. got underway and steamed out of the harbor. At 4
p. nii. hoisted the propeller and put the ship under sail.
	Friday, May 22.Latitude 130 4 37, longitude 370 36.
	Saturday, May 23.At 1 p. m. sent a boat on board an English ship
from Liverpool for the east. We showed our own colors and were
vociferously cheered by the crew and passengers of the boarded ship.
Latitude 12~ 33 33, longitude 360 39.
	Sunday, May 21.Latitude 110 34, longitude 340 54, 30. I am
quite homesick this quiet Sunday morning. I am now two long, long
years and more absent from my family, and there are no signs of an
abatement of the war. On the contrary, the Yankee devils seem to
become more and more infuriated, and nothing short of a war of inva-
sion is likely to bring them to terms, unless, indeed, it be the destruc-
tion of their commerce, and for this I fear we are as yet too weak. If
we can get and hold Kentucky the case may be different. Well, we
must sacrifice our natural yearnings on the altar of our country; for
without a country we can have no home. Squally, ugly night. Boarded
a Dutch ship at 7p. in.
	Monday, May 25.Chased and captured American ship [S.] Gilder.
sleeve and American bark Justina. Destroyed the former and ransomed
the latter. Weather ugly and blowing a moderate gale of wind all day.
Latitude 120 4, longitude 350 10 45. Blowing very fresh during the
afternoon and night. rendering it quite difficult for our boats to trans-
ship the prisoners and provisions from the [S.] Gildersleeve to the Jus.
tina. In running down for the former before a heavy sea we came near
running over one of our boats, which, sailorlike, had let its light go out.
After we had passed she hailed us, and we hove to and picked her up.
Fired the ship at 11 p. in

Page 746

	746	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.
		             Ca8e of the ship [S.] Gildersteeve.

	Ship under United States colors and registei~ Charter party with
Messrs. Halliday, Fox &#38; Co., of London, who describe themselves as
merchants and freighters to make a voyage to Calcutta and back to
London or Liverpool. Cargo taken in at Sunderland and consisting of
coal, said to be shipped for the service of the Peninsular and Oriental
Steam Navigalion Company, but not evcn averred to be on their
account and risk. No certificate or other evidence of property. Ship
and cargo condemned. Master knows nothing of property, except
what appears by the papers.
	Tuesday, May 26.At 8:30 p. m. gave chase to a rakish-looking bark
carrying a press of sail. Latitud3 110 39/ 91/; longitude 340 47 30.
	Wednesday, May 27.Weather somewhat better to-day, though the
breeze is still fresh. At 7:30 a. m. overhauled the bark which we had
been chasing all night, the longest chase we have had. She proved to
be a Dutchman. Wore ship to the eastward. Another sail seen, but
being very far to the windward and on the opposite tack, she soon
passed out of sight. Latitude 12~ 15 38, Ion gitude 350 5. Chased
a sail four hours after dark, and finding that we only held our own
with her, at midnight gave up the chase, as it was leading us too far to
the westward.
	Thursday, May 28.At 8 showed United States colors to a French
ship. Latitude 12~ 54, longitude 350 18, and at 7 p. in. boarded an
English ship, twenty-nine days from London, from which we received
later intelligence by six days.
	Friday, May 29.Weather fine, wind light; showering a little toward
morning. We had another night chase last nightfrom about 2 a. in.
but with better success than the two previous nights, since at 7:30 a. m.
we came np with ~nd captured the American ship Jabez Snow, of
Rockport, Me. Just at daylight, being withiu about 4 miles of her,
we hoisted our own colors and fired a gun. She did not show any
colors in return, and stood a second gun before heaving to, and finally
showed her colors. Got on board from the prize a quantity of provi.
sions and cordage, transshipped the crew, and about sunset set her on
fire. Another woman on board, under the name of chambermaid, in
a ship without any passengers. For decencys sake, we were obliged
to turn the junior lieutenant out of his stateroom for her. The follow.
ing is an extract from a letter found on board, addressed by the owners
to the master, under date of Boston, November 25, 1862:
	We hope you may arrive safely and in good season, but we think you will find
business rather flat at Liverpool, as American ships especially are under a cloud,
owing to dangers from pirates, more politely styled privateers, which our kind
friends in England are so willing should slip out of their ports to prey on our
commerce.

	And the following iu another, dated Bucksport, January 16, 1863:
	In the first place, it is clear that it will not do to come this way with the ship. At
New York business for ships is flat enough; a large fleet in that port and nothing
for them to do that will pay expenses, and more arriving daily.

And another from the same:
	I hope you will be as prudent and economical as possible in managing your ship
matters, as your owners want all the money they can get hold of to aid in putting
down this terrible rebellion of ours. The progress our war is making I shall leave
for you to gather from the papers, for it makes me sick to think of it, much more to
talk about it.

	These were the private opinions of the Yankees, while their papers
were bragging of their success

Page 747

OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE. 747

Case of the Jabez Snow.

	Ship under United States colors and register; cargo, coals from Car-
diff for Montevideo. On the face of the bill of lading is the following:

	We certify that the cargo of coals of [the] Jabez Snow, for which this is the bill
of lading, is the bona tide property of Messrs. Wilson, Hett, Lane &#38; Co., and that
the same are British subjects and merchants, and also that the coals are for their
own use.
JNO. POWELL &#38; SONS.

	As this certificate was not sworn to, it added no force to the bill of
lading, as every bill of lading is an uusworii certificate of the facts it
recites. There being no legal proof among the papers to contradict
the presumption that all property Ibund under the enemys flag is
enemys property, and as the master, who was the charterer and agent
of the ship, and whose duty it was to know all about the transaction
in which he was engaged, swore that he had no personal knowledge of
the owners of the cargo, except such as he derived from the ships
papers, the cargo, as well as the ship, is condemned as prize of war.
The following significant extract from a letter of the master to his
owners, dated Penarth Roads, April 19, 1863, was found on board,
though not produced by the master:

	I have my bills of lading certified by the mayor that the cargo is bona tide Eng-
lish property. Whether this will be of any service to me in the event of my being
overhauled by a Southern pirate remains to be proved.

	The certificate above recited seems, therefore, to have been procured
by the master to protect his ship from capture, and not to have been a
spontaneous act of the pretended neutral owners to protect the cargo.
The cargo and the advance freight were insured against war risk, the
ship paying the premium. No effort was made by Wilson, llett, Lane
&#38; Co. to protect the cargo, and they were the proper parties to make
the oath. The agent who shipped the coals for this firm and who
wrote the above quoted certificate could only know, of conrse, that he
had shipped them by order of his principal. Why, then, did Wilson,
llett, Lane &#38; Co. decline to make the necessary oath to protect the
cargo l They should have t~ikeim the necessary steps to protect either
themselves or the insurers, but they did no such thing. From this it
would seem that they were probably the agents of some American
house, and that they could~ not, in conscience, take the oath reqnired
by the law. Latitude 130 25 11, longitude 350 38.
	Saturday, May 30.The smoke of our burning prize still visible this
morning; she sank at about 7:50 a. m. Latitude 130 31 21, longi-
tude 350 38.
	Sunday, May 31.Latitude 140 19 24, longitude 350 36. Sighted
a fnll-Pgged brig about dnsk, but did not chase. The Yankees have no
vessels of this rig engaged in foreign trade, or at least we have never
overhauled one, and the brig, besides, looked foreign.
	Monday, June 1.Latitude 14~ 44 19, longitude 350 15 45.
	Tuesday, June 2.At 3:30 a. m. passed a sail on the port tack; wore
ship in chase. At daylight time chase showed United States colors.
Fired two blank cartridges at her, without effect (our own colors up).
Chased until 10:30 a. in., when we fired a shot from the rifled gun which
brought her to, though still at a distance of 4~ miles. The prize proved
to be the bark Amazonian, of Boston, from New York for Montevideo.
Made preparations for removing the crew and burning the ship. Lati-
tude 150 1 18, longitude 340 56 30

Page 748

	748	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.
		             Case of the bark Amazonian.

	Ship under United States register and colors. ~llas an assorted cargo
on board, and is bound from New York to Montevideo. There are two
claims of neutral property, one for 20 cases of varnish and ~0 casks of
oil, claimed as shipped on account of Messrs. Galli &#38; Co., French
subjects. This claim is sworn to by a Mr. William Craig before a notary.
It does not aver that the property is in Messrs. Galli &#38; Co., but simply
that it was shipped on their account. There is no outside evidence
of the truth of this transaction, as the master knows nothing about it.
The other claim is for a quantity of white pine boards for boxes, and the
certificate states that it is the property of French citizens. Of course
this certificate is good for nothing, as it fails to point out the owners of
the lumber, and~ for aught that appears, the French citizens might
have been citizens of New York, (lomiciled there as merchants. Ship
and cargo condemned. We found a large commercial mail on board
this ship, which we destroyed.
	Wednesday, June 3.At 12:30 p. m. sent a boat on board of an
English brigantine and made arrangements with the master to take my
prisoners to Rio. A present of a captured chronometer had the effect
of moving him to consent, and in the course of the afternoon we sent
all the prisoners (forty one in number) on board of him, with a supply
of provisions for ten days or two weeks. Both vessels filled away about
nightfall on opposite tacks. The following is an extract of a letter from
New York, dated April 7, to a correspondent in Buenos Ayres:
	When von ship in American cessels it would be well to have the British consuls
certificage ofEnglish property attached to bill of ladin~ and invoices, as in the event
of falling in with the numerous privateers it would save both cargo and vessel, in
all probability. An American ship recently fallen iii with was released by the Ala-
bama on account of British consuls certificate showing greater part of cargo to be
English property. If you ship in a neutral vessel, we save 5 per cent war insurance.

	Insurance at same date in England 8 per cent. Latitude 15~ 9 29,
longitude 350 4 15.
	Thursdaa, June 4.Toward night (after having chased a ship all day
without success, and tacked) we discovered the light of a burning ship
and ran down for it. It disappeared suddenly, having sunk, no doubt,
but as I supposed it might possibly be an accidental fire (we were 45
miles from where we had burned the Arnazonian thirty-six hours before)
I ran within 5 or 6 miles of the supposed spot of disappearance and
hove to until daylight, that we might i)ick up any boat, etc. But as
there is frequently a northerly current here, which might have set the
wreck of the Amazonian some 25 or 30 miles in our direction, I had but
little doubt that the light proceeded from that vessel. Latitude 14~
46 34, longitude 340 57.
	Friday, June 5.At a little before 4 oclock (the ship lying to) a large
sail was reported close aboard, and standing fbr us. Filled away,
and set topgallant sails, bore down npon the stranger, and fired a blank
cartridge to heave him to. Sent a boat on board and took possession
of the American ship Talisman. Received on board from this ship
during the day some beef and pork and bread, etc., and a couple of
brass 12 pounders, mounted on ship carriages. There were four of these
pieces on board, and a juantity of powder and shot, two steam boilers,
etc., for fitting up a steam gunboat. Brought on board the crew and
four passengers (a woman among the number), and at nightfall set
fire to the ship, a beautiful craft of 1,100 tons

Page 749

OPERATIONS	OF TIlE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE. 740
Oct86 of the 8hip Talitman.

	Ship under United States colors and register; from New York for
Shanghai; no claim of neutral property in cargo. ship and cargo con-
demned. Latitude 140 35 42, longitude 36~ 26 45.
	Saturday, June G.Weather fine; wind light, from S. E. At 3 p. in.
hove to an English ship and sent a boat on board of her. We were
sure that this was an American ship before she hoisted her colors, and
so in fact she proved as to her origin, she having been built in Maine
and sold to English owners. Her papers were all regular, and the
master and crew were English, and yet if this ship could have been
sent before a prize court it might have turned out that the transfer
was only nominal and the property really American. These are some
of the disadvantages we labor under in having no ports into which to
send our prizes. I could not destroy upon a mere presumption grow-
ing out of the fact of transfer during war. The master consented to
receive from us a prisoner and his wife (Murphy), captured on board
the Talisman, for passage to Calcutta. Sent on board a barrel of beef
and a barrel of bread with them. Verily is the Great Republic
humbled when she has to put her ships under the protectiou of a neu-
tral flag. Latitude 150 17 44, longitude 350 26 15.
	Sunday, June 7.Morning fine; weather clouding an(1 becoming
squally in theafternoon. At 11 mustered the crew. Latitude 1607/10,
longitude 350 37. Chased a sail several hours after dark, but she
drawing ahead of us, we abandoned the chase and wore ship at mid-
night. An ugly, squally night.
	Monday, Jmme 8.Ugly, squally weather. Strong northerly current.
Showed United States colors to a Hanovcrian hermaphrodite brig,
having chased her a couple of hours. Latitude 15~ 55 59, longitude
350 28 6. Ugly, squally night; single reefed the topsails.
	Tuesday, June 9.Blowing a gale of wind from the S. B., with some
sea on and passing rain squalls; high barometer. We are off the
Abrolhos Shoals, a sort of Brazilian Cape Hatteras for bad weather.
Close reefed at noon. Latitude 160 55, longitude 350 36. A sail
passed to windward, in sight from the masthead, oim the opposite tack.
IDid not chase on account of the weather. The gale continued all
night; single reefed trysails at night.
	Wednesday, June 10.Still blowing a gale; weather clearing, and
wind moderating toward noon, but still quite a sea on. Current with
the wind, to the northward and westward. High barometer all this
time. Latitude 160 17 41, longitude 340 35 15.
	Thursday, June 11.Weather cloudy, with the sun showing out occa-
sionally between the rifted clouds driving to the N. W. Current in the
direction of the wind; wind more moderate, but still a rough sea on.
Latitude 150 32 14, longitude 330 46 9.
	Friday, June 12.Latitude 170 25 10, longitude 340 24 48.
	Saturday, June 13.Weather fine. Chased and overhauled an Eng-
lish bark. Latitude 190 21 10, longitude 350 37 30. Night clear;
breeze fresh.
	Sunday, June 14.Weather clear; breeze fresh from B. S. E. A ship
in sight to windwardrather a desperate chase. At ii a. m. mustered
the crew and inspected ~he ship. Latitude 190 54, longitude 350 18.
A bark overhauled and passed to windward and ahead of us during
the night.
	Monday, June 15.An ugly morning, with the weather squally; wind
blowing half a gale, and quite a sea on. Our ship has certainly got t

Page 750

750 OPERATIO~8 OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

be very dull under canvas, for with a tress of sail, and the wind a point
free, she has made to-day bnt 8 knots. The consequence is that a stern
chase has become a forlorn hope with us. Latitude 220 38 56, longi-
tude 350 11 15. Blowing fresh, with thick weather and a heavy sea
during the night. At 2 a. m. chased and came up with a bark, but as
the weather was boisterous for a boat xve kept company with the chase
until daylight, when she showed French colors, and was evidently
French. Wore ship.
	Tuesday, June 16.Ugly, hazy weather, with a very strong breeze from
about E. N. E., and a heavy sea. At ii a. m. cut off and hove to a
bark, evidently American built, under English colors. Sent a boat on
board to examine her papers, etc. Latitude 23~ 41 1, longitude 350
26 15. The bark proved to be the G. Azzopadi, of Port Lewis [Louisj,
Isle of France. She was formerly the Joseph Hale, built at Portland,
Me. Her register, which appeared to be regular, was dated on the 30th
of October, 1862, and, according to the deposition of the master, Fred-
erick Thorndyke, the bark, previons to this date, had put into Port
Louis in distress and in a damaged condition, and was there sold, and
l)nrchased by her British owner and sent to Boston with the wrecked
cargo, and was now on her return to Port Louis. This deposition was
given under oath, and the master swore that he had no interest in the
vessel. She was released, as however much I might have been inclined
to send her in for adjudication, had such a thing been possible, I could
not destroy as the case stood. Here was a humiliating spectacle for
the old flag, as no doubt the motive of the sale was the insecurity of
property under it. At 8 p. m. we wore ship under easy sail to permit a
large ship tQ come up with us. As she approached we fired, first one
blank cartridge and then another, and finding that she took no notice
of either we fired a shot ahead of him, which brought him to. He
proved to be another Yankee ship sold to British owners. She was
formerly the Challenger, now the Queen of Beauty, running as an Aus-
tralian packet. She had 300 passengers on board. Her papers were
all in form, and I have no doubt of the bona fides of this transhw. The
boarding officer reported great excitement among the passengers and
crew when they learned that we were the Alabama, and they gave him
three cheers when he shoved off. Thus ends our days work. Out of
the four vessels boarded, no prize, in two of the cases the old flag~~
taking refuge under the English ensign, so much despised by the
Yankees except in the way of trade.
	Wednesday, June 17.Weather fine, with the wind light from a bout
north. Engaged tearing down the gallows frame, which is in the way of
working the forward guns. Sea going down. Latitude 230 54 29,
longitude 350 53. At 8:30 p. m. hove to with a bow gun and boarded a
Norwegian brig from Rio Grand do Sul for Bahia. I tried to ship my
prisoners by her, but she was afraid of compromising herself.
	Thursday, June 18.Latitude 240 16 23, longitude 370 15.
	Friday, June 19.Weather fine, with a bracing atmosphere; wind
moderate from N. N. W. At 2 a. m. were in chase of a sail, which we
came up with and hove to at 4 a. in. She proved to be a Bremen bark,
from Buenos Ayres for New York, with hides, etc. Thus the Yankee
trade is seeking nentral flags. Latitude 240 57 42, longitude 390 130.
We have had a southerly ~urrent of about a knot an hour for the last
three or four days.
	$aturday, June 20.Weather cloudy, and cool enough for a thick
coat; wind light from the northward and westward. At 11:30 in
chase of a sail to leeward~ Latitude 2.0 48, longitude 40~ 18 15

Page 751

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	751

It falling calm, and the chase having a very Yankee look about him,
got up steam at 5 p. in. and overhauled him at 6. He proved to be the
American bark Conrad, of Philadelphia, from Bu~ios Ayres for New
York, with part of a cargo of wool.

Case of the Conrad.

	Ship under Americaii colors and register. A Mr. Thomas Arm-
strong, who describes himself as a British subject doing business at
Buenos Ayres, makes oath before the British consul that a part of this
wool belongs to him and a part to a Dr. Frederico Elortondo, a sub-
ject of the Argentine Itepublic. This may or may not be true, but the
master is unable to verify the (locument, he not having been preseiit
when it was prepared, and tiot knowing anything abaut it. There is,
besides, so strong a current of American trade with Buenos Ayres that
the presumption is, from the very fact that this wool was going to New
York iii an American bottom under the imminency of capture, which
our presence in these seaswell known at Buenos Ayres whemi the bark
sailedmust have shown that the property is American and that the
certificate is an attelnl)t to cover it, Mr. Armstrong probably being
either a broker or a partner in the transaction with some Aiuericau
house. Ship and cargo condemned.
	Sunday, June 21.The shortest day in the year. Weather clear, with
some haze; wind light from the northward. To-day I commissioned
the prize bark Conrad as a Ceimfederate States cruiser and tender to
this ship, under the name of the Tescaloosa, sending Acting Lieuten-
ant Low on board to command. We supplied her with the 2 brass
12-pounder rifled guns captured from the Talisman, 20 rifles, 6 revolvers,
ammunition, etc. Her total crew consists of 15 persons, which is quite
enough for a bark of 350 tons. Time crew being traimsferred, and all
arrangements complete, at Sp. m. Lieutenant Commanding Low hoisted
his flag, firing a gun simultaneously, and cheered. We hoisted our
colors and cheered in reply, and shortly afterwards the two vcssels
separated. May the Tuscaloosa prove a scourge to Yankee commerce!
At 7:30 p. m. hove to a large bark, which, on being boarded, proved
to be the English bark Jllary Kendall, for Point de Galle, puttiimg back
to Rio leaky. Sent the surgeon oim board at the request of the master
to see a seaman who had been badly hurt by a fall; and, the master
kindly consenting, we sent all our prisoners (thirty-one) on board of
him for transportation to Rio, sending ~vitli them a weeks provisions.
There was anothei- wonman among the batch (from the Conrad); claimed
to be a passenger. Latitude 250 46 6 5., longitude 40~ 16 30 W.
	Monday, June 22.Cloudy and hazy; nearly calm all last night, and
the wind very light this mmmormiing. The bark Mary Kendall still in
sight, and one other bark, which was so manifestly neutral that we did
not clmase her. Latitude 25~ 55 17, longitude 400 21. Appointed
Acting Master Sinclair an acting second lieutenant amid Midshipman
Bulloch acting master.

Further examination of the case of the Conrad.

	From an examination of the correspoimdence in this case, brought on
board after the ships papers had been examined, it appeared that Mr.
Armstrong, the English party shipping a part of the cargo, swears
before his consul that he and one Dr. Frederico Elortommdo are the
owners of the property, mind swears before the U. S. consul that he is
the sole owner of the property. Both of these oaths can not be true

Page 752

752 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDEl~A~.

It further appears that while the property in the bill of lading is con-
signed to Simon de Visser, esq., in the letters to Messrs. Kirkland &#38; 
Von Saehs it is spoken of as consigned to them. These letters make
no mention, either, of any joint ownership with Armstrong, but treat
the consignment as his sole property.
	Tuesday, June 23.Last night toward dark we approached within
some 13 or 14 miles of a ship having the appearance of an American,
and we had hopes of being able to hold on to her dnring the night, but,
unfortunately, we lost her. Latitude 250 24 47, longitude 380 40 30.
	Wednesday, June 24.To-day, having directed an examination into
the bread room, it is reported that we have bnt thirty days bread on
board, and, as I design to make the run to the Cape of Good Hope, I
have directed that half a ponnd per man only be issned for the present.
Latitude 250 19, longitude 360 36.
	Thursday, June 25.Cloudy, with the wind fresh from about N. N. E.
At 1:40 showed United States colors to a Spanish bark, which we had
chased a couple of hours, running back from my course very reluctantly.
Latitude 25~ 56 17, longitude 330 44.
	Friday, June 2G.Thick, squally, rainy weather; wind fresh from
north, hauling to the N. W., and thence suddenly, soon after noon, S.W.
No observation for latitude to-day. ,D. R, 260 40; longitude,
ID. It., 300 16. At 9:30 p. ni. hove to a ship with a second gun, shotted,
and went to quarters. She proved, upon being boarded, to be a French
ship, from Callao, with guano, for Havre.
	Saturday, June 27.This morning, it having been ascertained (by
report of the petty officers at the mast) that much of the thirty days
allowance of bread believed to be on board had been almost entirely
destroyed by weevils, I deemed it prudent to go into Itio, distant 825
miles, for a supply, unless, indeed, we should capture a supply before
we make the port, and then resume my voyage to the Cape of Good
Hope. This delay will probably 1)nt the coal bark some five or six
weeks ahead of me, but as 1 have dispatched the Tuscaloosa to detain
her, probably no inconvenience will result. At all events, the bread
supply is imperative. Weather hazy, and quasi cloudy; wind light,
and sea heavy from the S. W., probably the result of yesterdays blow.
Latitude 260 1 24, longitude 280 29.
	Sunday, June 28.Weather cloudy, with a long, heavy swell from the
S. W.; wind moderate from the S. E. At 4:30 this morning we brought
to a heavy ship with a blank cartridge, or rather she seemed to come to
of her own accord, as she was evidently outsailing us and was, when
we fired, at very long range. Soon after heaving to she burned a blue
light, and while our boat with a light in it was l)ulling toward her she
burned another. She afterwards said that she would not have hove to
but that she thought we might be in distress. The boarding officer
reported us as the U. S. S. Daeotah, and demanded to see the ships
papers, which was refused, the master telling him that he had no right
to see his papers. The boarding officer having been informed of her
name (the Vernon), and that she was from Melbourne for London and
being satisfied from observation that she was really an English ship,
she being one of the frigate-built Melbourne packets so well known,
returned on board, and the ship filled away, and she was already at
considerable distance from us when I received the boarding officers
report. Under all these circumstances I did not chase him afresh to
enforce my belligerent right of search. Gui bono, the vessel being really
English~i Although, indeed, the resistance to search by a neutral is
good cause of capture, I could only capture to destroy, and I would no

Page 753

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	753

burn an English ship (being satisfied of her nationality) if the master
persisted in not showing his papers. Nor did I feel that the Confeder-
ate States flag had any insult to revenge, as th~ insult, if any, was
intended for the Yankee flag. Most probably, however, the ship being
a packet ship, and a mail packet, the master erred from ignorance.
	I have been quite interested this morning watching a new kind of
sea bird, al)ont the size of a small gull, and of somewhat similar shape;
head black, breast white, and wings black with two white spots on the
tip of each. It followed the wake of the ship, searching in the smooth
water for its food, like the petrel. Its dexterity of wing was truly
remarkable; it would skim the tips of the seas within apparently an
inch or two, at the utmost velocity, without even touching a feather in
the spray. This bird was entirely new to mecape pigeon. I had
never seen it north of the equator. At Ii mustered the crew. Latitude
25~ 57 6, longitude 300 31. At 4p. in. got a distant view from the mast-
head (15 miles) of a ship dead to leeward of us, running to the leeward.
iDid not chase, it being nseless. Gloomy, thick weather; wind fresh
and sea heavy. So passes another Sunday of the war, away from home
and family and friends.
	Monday, June 29.Ugly, stormy-looking weather, with a rough sea
and half a gale from the east. Cape pigeons still around us. At 9:30
a. in. showed the United States colors to an English ship to windward
of us, bound to the southward. Clouds breaking and weather looking
a little better at noon. Latitude 260 35, longitude 320 59 30. Cur-
rent, S. E., 30 miles. Ship rolling and tumbling about, to my great dis-
comfort. Thp fact is, I am getting too old to relish the rough usage of
the sea. Youth sometimes loves to be rocked by a gale, but wheim we
have passed the middle stage of life we love quiet and repose.
	Tuesday, June 3O.-The bad weather of the past week seems at length
to have blown itself out, and this morning we have the genial sunshine
again, and a clear, bracing atmosphere. With a solitary exception the
cape pigeons, true to their natures, have departed. There is still some
roughness of the sea left, however, and the ship is rolling and creaking
her bulkheads as usual. It is two years to-day since we ran the
blockade of the Mississippi in the Sumter. Two years of almost con-
stant excitement and anxiety, the usual excitement of battling with
the sea and the weather and avoiding dangerous shoals and coasts,
added to the excitement of the chase, the cal)ture, the escape from
the enemy, and the battle. And then there has been the govern-
ment of my officers and crew, not always a pleasant task, for I have
had some senseless and unruly spirits to deal with; and last, though
not least, the bother and vexation of being hurried out of port when
I have gone into one by scrupulous and timid officials, to say nothing of
offensive espionage. All these things have produced a constant ten-
sion of the nervous system, and the wear and tear of body in these
two years would, no doubt, be quite obvious to my friends at home,
could they see me on this 30th day of June 1863. Sic transit vita
korninis, usque ad finem! Latitude 250 56 55, longitude 350 12 15.
	Wednesday, July 1.At 5 a. in. hove to an English bark, from Cardiff
for Shanghai, with coal. Having had a long passage, we got no late
newspapers by her, only one of the date of May 4. Indeed, the master
had none. Stolid John Bull! Latitude 250 38, longitude 36~ 38.
	Thursday, July 2.Weather partially clear. We sighted eleven sail
to-day amid caught but one Yankee. Last nght at II p. m. we made
sail in chase of vessel steering about S. W. by S. and chased her all
N W RvoL ii 4

Page 754

754 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

night. At 7 this morning, being within about 3 miles of her, we fired
a blank cartridge, which caused her to hoist the United States colors.
A second cartridge brought her to. She provedto be the ship Anna
F. &#38; hmidt, of ~l aine, from Boston (via St. Thomas, whither she had
put in in distress) for San Francisco, with a valuable cargo of assorted
merchandise. Captured her, there being no claim of neutral property
upon the face of the papers. Got on board from her such things as
we needed, and at 5 p. m. fired her. While we were busy with the
prize we ran down and boarded an American-built ship, under English
colors, from Cardiff for Calcutta. Her papers, register, clearance, etc.,
were all regnlar, and she had a Scotch master and English crew on
board. Humiliated Brother Jonathan! Several other sail passed us
at a distance during the afternooii, but we were too much engaged to
pursue them. One of them showed us English colors at a long dis-
tance. At 9 p. in. we fired a bow gun to bring to a large ship, which
fired a gun in return and disregarded our summons. We got up steam
an(l after a hard chaseit was blowing very fresh at the time with a
smooth seacame up with and ranged alongside of a vessel showing
ten guns of a side. We hailed (having informed the stranger of our
own name) and were informed that she was H. B. M. frigate J)iornede, or
some such name. She informed us that she was bonud to England.
We were for a long time in hopes that we were in pursuit of a Yankee.
Although she passed close to the burning wreck she did not stop, but
contented herself with burning a blue light, and then she carried sail
in a way that seemed to us extraordinary unless she was running,
having roy~is in a breeze that would ordinarily reduce a man-of-war
to topsails. As we l)assed the burning wreck in pursuit of this ship,
two other sail passed close to us, one having run down to the fire and
hauled up his mainsail for a Iew miuntes. Neither looked Yankee.
Latitude 260 14 30, longitude 370 51.
	July 3.As we got on board from the prize about thirty days bread-
stuffs, I resolved to attempt the passage to the Cape of Good Hope,
and at 9 a. m. put her head to the southward and eastward. Weather
clear, with a moderate breeze from about N. E. by E. Put the crew on
one-half pound of bread per man, giving them one-fourth pound more
of meat if they required it. Latitude 26~ 31 24, longitude 370 33.
	Saturday, July i Wefther very fine; wind inclining to be light
toward noon, from the N. E. This is Independence Day in the old
concern, a holiday which I am half inclined to throw overboard,
because it was established iii such bad company as the Massachusetts
and other Yankees, and because we have to fight the battle of inde-
pendence over again and against a greater tyrant than the old one, the
tyrant this time being many-headed, unscrupulous, and fanatical.
Latitude ~70 27, longitude 340 37 l5.
	Sunday, July 5.The Magellan Islands [Magellanic Clouds] distinctly
seen, near the Southern Cross, a black, stationary cloud of about 2
degrees in diameter. Latitude 270 58 18, longitude 310 43.
	Monday, July 6.At thirty minutes past midnight a sail was reported.
Hauled up in chase, and at 3:30 hove to a ship with a shot, she having
disregarded two blank cartridges. She proved to be the Express, of
Boston, from Callao for Antwerp, loaded with guano. Captured her,
and after having brought on board from her some provisions and the
crew, fired her at about 10:30 a. m. and filled away on our course. The
masters wife on board. William S. Frost, master. Latitude 28~ 28,
longitude 30~ 20

Page 755

OPERAT1ON~ OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.
755

Case of the ship EXjpre8s.

	Ship under United States colors and register; c~rgo, guano; shipped
by Lescan, Valdeavellano &#38; Co., at Callao, and consigned to J. Lescau
&#38; Co., at Antwerp. On the back of this bill of lading is the following
endorsement:

	Nous soussign6, charg6 daffairos et consnl-g6n6ral do France h Lima, certifions
quo le chargemont de mule soixanto-douze tonneaux do registro de Huano [gunno ~]
spdcifi6 an prdsent connaissement est propri6td noutre.
	Fait ~ Lima le 27 Janyrior, 1863.

	(Signed and impressed with the consular seal.)
	This certificate fails to be of any value as proof, for two reasons:
First, it is not sworn to, and, secondly, it simply avers the property to
be neutral (the greater part of it, for it does not touch the guano in
sacks), instead of pointing out the owner or owners. First, a consul
may authenticate evidence by his seal, but when he departs from the
usual functions of a consul and becomes a witness he must give his
testimony under oath like other witnesses. This certificate, therefore,
does not even amount to an ex parte affidavit. If the property had
been in the shippers or the consignees it would have been quite as
easy to say so as to pat the certificate in its present shape. Why, then,
was the simple declaration that the property was neutral made use of
the law, with which every consul, and more especially a chargd ~ affaires,
is supposed to be acquainted with, declaring this to be insufficient?
The conclusion from these two facts, viz, that there was no oath taken
and that there was no owner named, would seem to be that the coiisul
gave a sort of matter-of-course certificate upon the application of some
one who declared the property to be neutral, perhaps without a knowl-
edge of the fact, or contrary to the fact, neithei party taking any oath.
Now, the presumption of law beino- that goods found in an enemys
ship belong to the enemy, unless a distinct neutral character be given
to them by pointing out the real owner by proper documentary proof,
and as neither the bill of lading nor the certificate (which is a mere
statement of a fact, like the bill of lading, not nuder oath) nor the mas-
ters testimony, who knows nothing (see his deposition) except as he
has been told by the shippers, amounts to proper documentary proof,
the ship and cargo are both condemned. It must be admitted that this
is a case in which, perhaps, a prize court would grant further proof, but
as I can not do that, and as a distinct neutral character is not impressed
upon the property by proper evidence I must act under the presump-
tion of law. (See 3d Phillimore, 596.) The charter party in this case
describes the charterers, J. Lescau &#38; Co., of Paris, as agents of the
supreme Peruvian Government, and their consignees of guano at the
Kingdom of Belgium, which would import that the cargo belonged to
the Peruvian Government. But, if so, why was it not certificated by
that Government (as was done in the case of the Washington, captured
and released on bond by this ship)? And the master swears that the
shippers told him that the cargo belonged to them. And if the Peru-
vian Government must needs resort to a French official for a certificate,
why was there no oath male before him, and why did he not state the
fact that it so belonged, which would have protected it?
	Tuesday, July 7.Latitude 290 45 48, longitude 270 36 45. We
shipped five new men to-day from the crews of the last two captures.
This gives us a total of 23 officers and 120 men.
	Wednesday, July 8.Latitude 300 6, longitude 24~ 20. Holding
our wind to-night to avoid running over one [of] Mr. Smiths breakers,
seen hereabouts in 1760

Page 756

756 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Thursday, July 9.Latitude 29~ 57 38, longitude 21~ 16 30. Not
running quite so free as I otherwise would, to avoid running over (dur-
ing the night) the position, or rather the parallel,~assigned to the Sax-
enburg Island, one of the doubtful dangers of the South Atlantic.
Shifting old and bending new sails, where we find the old ones worn
and requiring mending.
	Friday, July 10.Latitude, D. iR., 290 29; longitnde, ID. IR., 170 47.
	Saturday, July 11.Latitude 280, longitude 15~ 12 15.
	Sunday, July 12.Latitude 260 44 17, longitude 13~ 32. I fear I
shall be driven into the trades unless 1 tack, and then I shall make
westing along with my southing. At 11 mustered the crew. Tacked
ship at 2:30 p. in.
	Monday, July 13.The wind i~ gradually inclining more to the north-
ward and eastward, but for the last three days we have been baffled
and buffeted by a head wind and sea. This is bad, with rather a small
allowance of bread. Latitude 28~ 13, longitude 13~ 27 45.
	Tuesday, July 14.Latitude 29~ 21, longitude 110 31 28.
	Wednesday, July 15.The barometer, which has been very high
ever since we left the coast of Brazil, is falliug rapidly to day. Lati-
tude 300 7 23, longitude 80 6. To-day is midwinter! It takes one
some time to accustom himself to being thus turned round. Thermom-
eter ranging from 630 to 670.
	Thursday, July 16.The wind has gone round to the westward again,
with thick rainy weather, as before. No observation to-day. Latitude,
ID. II., 300 39 [S.]; longitude, D. li., 40 5 [W.].
	Friday, J&#38; tly 17.We shall soon be upon the track of the Yankees
againthe homeward-bound from the East Indies. Latitude 30~ 16
21, longitude 20 35 W.
	AS~aturday, July 18.Latitude 290 54 3, longitude 30 4 E.
	Sunday, July 19.Sky entirely overcast with a leaden canopy of
clouds, not a glimpse of the sun having been seen. Wind light, from
S. to S. by E., and a rolling sea from the southward and westward.
Latitude, ID. II., 290 47; longitude, ID. IR., 50 32.
	Monday, July 20.Latitude 29~ 57, longitude 70 23 30.
	Tuesday, July 21.Latitude 300 43 14, longitude 100 19 24.
	Wednesday, July 22.The cry of Sail, ho! was heard from aloft
to-day, for the first time for sixteen days, or since we left the coast of
Brazil, and at 3 p. ni. we sent a boat on board of an English ship from
Calcntta for London. She consented -to take as passengers the masters
of the two last prizes and the wife of Frost, of the Express. Latitude
31~ 33, longitude 12~ 37.
	Thursday, July 23.Weather bright and fine, with a gentle breeze
from about W. N. W., quite unusual near the Cape of Good Hope in
midwinter. The westerly winds which have prevailed for some days
past have scattered the homeward-bound ships from beyond the cape
some to the eastward and some to the westward of the usual trackso
that we have seen nothing to-(lay. 1 p in.: What must also be quite
unusual, we have had a current of l~ knots an hour, or 36 miles, in the
last twenty-four hours, nearly due east. Latitude 319 59 27, longi-
tude 140 12.
	Friday, July 24.Bedalmed for nearly the whole of the last twenty-
four hours. This morning we have the weather clear, with a light
breeze from about E. S. E., with a heavy swell from the southward.
The change of wind to the eastward will probably bring along some of
the cape ships in their wonted track, which we plot in exactly to-day.
Latitude 32~ 34 33, longitude 14~ 51 45

Page 757

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	757

	Saturday, July 25.We have experienced a southerly current. Wind
dead ahead for the cape. Latitude 330 50, longitude 150 34. It blew
half a gale of wind last night from the sonthwart and eastward, with
a peculiarly clear sky and a smooth sea, the weather resembling our
northwesterly weather on the coast of Mississippi and Louisiana.
	Sunday, July 26.The remarkably clear weather still continuesnot
a cloud as big as yonr hand to be seen. At 7: 30 a. m. a sail was
descried from aloft. Gave chase, and at 11 came up with and sent a
boat on board of a Dutch ship from Batavia to Amsterdam. While we
were chasing this ship another sail was descried far to leeward, and
which soon ran out of sight. At 11 inspected the ship. Latitude 330
26 51, longitude 160 37 15. At 3 p. m. sent a boat on board of a
large English ship from Bombay for Liverpool (St. Johns built), and at
5 sent a boat on board of another English ship (Havelock) from Bombay
for London. This ship stood a shot before she would heave to. She
afterwards cheered us and dipped her colors. I have thus spent a busy
Sabbath day, without having time even to read a chapter in the Bible,
and all for nothingone Dutchman and two Englishmen.
	Monday, July 27.At 10 a. m. made the land, a point on the weather
bow bearing at S. E., which we took to be the table-land of the cape.
At 11 sent a boat on board of a small topsail schooner from Walflsch
Bay, bound for the cape. No observation for longitude or latitude.
Latitude, ID. R, 330 46; lougitude 17~ 17. About 1 p. m. the weather
set in thick with rain, and the wind hauled to the S. W. Hauled off at
2 p. in., and at about 4 a gale set in, which blew all night, raising a
heavy sea. l~ouble reefed. A bark passed close under our lee in the
mid watch, but the weather was too boisterous to I )oard her.
	Tuesday, July 28,Weather in the morning thick and squally, the
gale still continuing and blowing quite strong during the forenoon.
Sighted the highland about Cape Town at 10:30 a. m. In the after-
noon the clouds broke and flew rapidly with the gale. At 3 p. m. bore
up for Saldanha Bay, but ran too far inside of IDasseii Island, and was
compelled to haul out about 3: 30 p. in., there being too little daylight
to make the run to the bay. There is a ledge of rocks a mile and a half
to the westward of this island which, in the heavy swell that was run-
ning, threw up an immense breaker, resembling a ship in a fog. Hauled
oft after weathering this breaker, under single-reefed topsails for the
night. Latitude 330 46, longitude 170 31.
	Wednesday, July 29.Weather fine, but cool; thermometer, at 7 a. in.,
480; barometer, 30.51, the highest I have ever seen. Made sail at day-
light, and ran in for the land. At 9 a. m. made the island and breakers of
Dassen, and at 12:30, having put the ship under steam atli a. m.,arrived
off Saldanha Bay and boarded a small coaster and took ou board the
master, he volunteering to bring us in. At 1: 45, anchored iu Hoetjes
[Houtiesi Bay in 54 fathoms, water as smooth as a mill pond and
anchorage land-locked.
	Thursday, July 30.Weather still fine. Last night the sky and atmos-
pliere were singularly brilliant; but few stars visible. Landed this
morniug at 8 to get sights for my chronometers, this bei~~g the first
time that I ever set foot on the continent of Africa. Saldanha Bay is
a gloomy, desert-looking place, the shore composed of sand and rock,
without trees, but with green patches here and there. There are three
or four farmhouses iu sight, scattered over the hills and a few fishing
liuts on the shore of Iloetjes [Iloulies] Bay. The farmers here are
mostly graziers; the cattle are fine and of good size. Great numbers of
goats graze on the hills, and sheep raisiug is extensive, the mutto

Page 758

758 OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

being particularly fine. The springbok, or small deer, are abundant.
We had a venison steak for breakfast. The little islands in the bay
abound in rabbits, and there is good pheasant sh~oting in the valleys.
Already a party of officers has gone out to stretch their limbs and enjoy
the luxury of shooting.
	Friday, July 31.Weather still fine. Took a stroll on shore and
walked round some fine oat fields. The soil resembles our hammock
land in Florida, and produces finely. Engaged calking, painting, etc.
An abundance of Wild flowers in bloom. Huge blocks of granite lie
about on the sand and from the tops of projections, etc.
	saturday, August 1.Weather very fine; wind light from the south-
ward. I have been permitting some of my men to go on shore, but
three of them have run off and the rest have behaved so badly in get-
ting drunk that I have stopped their liberty. One of these fellows drew
a revolver on a masters mate. The fact is, I have a precious set of
rascals on boardfaithless in the matter of abiding by their contracts,
liars, thieves, and drunkards. There are some few good men who are
exceptions to this rnle, but I am ashamed to say of the sailor class of
the present day that I believe my crew to be a fair representation of it.
I returned on board after a stroll on shore at 2 p. m. In my stroll I met
some farmers in a four-horse wagon coming to see the ship. They
brought me a wild peacock, not quite as large as our wild turkey. It
was without the gorgeous plumage of the domestic bird. The schooner
A tias came in this afternoon with letters for me from some merchants
at Cape Town, offering their services to supply me with coal, etc., and
expressing their good will, etc. I took occasion by this vessel, which
returned immediately, to write to the governor, Sir Philip E. Wode-
house, informing him of my presence here, etc.
	AS~unday, August 2.Weather delightfnlly clear and pleasant. It is
just cold enough (morning 480, noon 550) to render walking in the sun-
shine pleasant. The inhabitants say that this winter has been remark-
able for its general good weather and for the few gales they have had.
Crowds of country people came on board to look at the ship to-day from
far and near.
	Monday, August 3.Weather continues very fine, the sky unclouded
and the sun bright. Wind light from southward. Another crowd of
visitors to-day, who came in in their country wagons and on horseback.
They all speak Dutch, and it is rare to find one among them who speaks
English. Although it is nearly half a. century since England took final
possession of the colony, the English language has made but little
progress, the children being taught by Dutch schoolmasters and the
newspapers being, many of them, printed in Dutch. There was an
intelligent young Boer (about 23) among them, who had never been on
board a ship before. He was quite excited by the novelty of everything
he saw. Some of the female visitors were plump, ruddy Dutch girls,
whose large, rough hands and awkward bows, or courtesies, showed
them to be honest lasses from the neighboring farms, accustomed to
milking the cows and churning the butter. I found the geranium grow-
ing wild in my rambles to-day. Just as we were going to sundown
quarters a boat came alongside with the body of Third Assistant
Engineer [S. W.J Cummings, who had accidentally shot himself with
his gun.
	Tuesday, August 4.Weather very fine. In the afternoon at 3 the
funeral procession started for the shore with the body of the deceased
engineer, He was taken to a private cemetery about a mile and a hal

Page 759

	OPERA.TION~ OF THE CRUISERSCO~{FEDERATE.	759

distant and interred with the honors due to his grade, the first lieuten-
ant reading the funeral service. This is the first burial we have had
from the ship.
	Wednesday, August 5.Weather fine wind light from the southward.
At 6 a. m. got up the anchor and got nnderway, under steam, and
steamed out of the bay and shaped a course for Cape Town. At 9:30
descried a sail a point on the starboard bow, and at 10:30 came up
with and sent a boat on board of the C. S. bark Tuscaloosa and brought
Lieutenant Low on board. He reported having captured on the 31st
of July the American ship Santee, from the eastward, laden with rice,
certificated as British property, and bound for Falmouth. He released
her on ransom bond for $150,000. I directed Lieutenant Low to pro-
ceed to Simons Bay for supplies. Steamed in frr the town. At 12:30
made a bark two points on the starboard bow, gave chase, and at about
2 p. m. came up with, fired a gun, and hove to the chase, she having up
United States colors. This was a close pursuit, as the bark was not
more than 5 or 6 miles from the shore when we came np with her. The
master might have saved himself if he had stood directly in for the
land, but we ran down upon him under English colors, and he had no
suspicion of our character until it was too late. The U. S. consul at
once protested against our violation of British waters and the governor
telegraphed to the admiral in Simons Bay (Walker) to send a man-of-
war round, and at about 10 p. in. II. B. M. S. Valorous, Captain [C. C.]
Forsyth, came in and anchored. Some correspondence has passed
between the governor and myself on the subject of the capture, and I
believe he is satisfied as to distance, etc. Put a prize crew on board
the prize (AS*ea Bride) and directed her to stand off and on until further
orders. The moment our anchor was dropped we were crowded with
visitors.
	Thursday, August 6.The weather has changed to-day. The barom-
eter is falling and the clouds begin to gather, moving rather low, and
threatening. Notwithstanding the bad weather, however, the ship has
been crammed with visitors all the morning, and my cabin has been
constantly filled with people pressing to shake hands with me and to
express sympathy for my cause. During the night we had some thun-
der and lightning, first from the S. E. and then from the K. W., and
the wind, springing up very gently at first, freshened to a gale by
morning, with showers of rain and hail. Communicated with the prize
and directed the prize master, in case he should be blown off by a gale,
to rendezvous at Saldanha Bay by the 15th of the month. Captain
Forsyth of the Valorous, came on board. Returned his visit.
	Friday, August 7.I should have been underway for Simons Bay
this morning but for the gale. The wind is blowing very fresh from
the northward and westward, with dense clouds climbing up and over
the Table, Lions Head, etc., presenting a fine spectacle, with the rough
waters, all the ships with struck upper yards and riding at long scopes,
the town half enveloped in the flying mists, etc. The bold watermen,
in all the gale, are cruising about the bay under reefed sails, some ot
them with anchors and cables ready to render assistance to any ship
that may require it. Last night, in the first watch, a sail was reported
to be on shore near the. light-house and firing signal guns. Very soou
we saw two or three boats put out to her assistance. In the morning
we learned that it was a Brazilian brig, and that the crew was saved.
The brig is fast breaking up in the gale.
	Saturday, August 8.The gale broke last night, but there is still some
breeze blowing and the sea is quite rough. Last night a Bremen bri

Page 760

760 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

was wrecked off Monille Point. We heard him firing guns, and I feared
at first it was our prize, and yet I could not conceive how my prize
master, who was acquainted with the soundings, ~u1d have made such
a mistake. The weather has checked the throng of visitors, and yet a
few get off to us, asking for autographs, looking curiously over the
ship. We are finishing onr repairs and getting supl)lies on board.
Our prize has not made her appearance to-day. She will rendezvous
at Saldanha Bay on the 15th instant.
	Sunday, August 9.Weather has again become fine. At 6 a. m. pre-
cisely we moved out of the bay and steamed along the coast toward
the cape. We gave chase to two sail off the mouth of False Bay, and,
overhauling them, one proved to be an English and the other an
American bark. The latter we boarded, but when I came to get bear-
ings and plot my position, it unfortunately turned out that I was
within a mile or a mile and a quarter of a line drawn from the Cape [of
Good Hope] light-house to the opposite headland of the bay, and there-
fore within the prescribed limit of jurisdiction. The master of the
bark in the meantime having come on board, I informed him of these
facts, and told him to return to and take possession of his ship, as I
had no authority to exercise any control over him, which he did, and
in a few minutes more we were under steam standing up the bay.
What a scene for the grim old cape to look down upon! The vessel
boarded was the Mictrtha Weuzell, of Boston, from Akyab for Falmouth.
At 2 p. m. anchored in Simons Bay and was boarded by a lieutenant
from the flagship of Admiral Walker. Crowds of visitors on board.
	Monday, 4ugust 10.Weather fine. I called on Admiral Walker at
his residence and was presented by him to his family and spent an
agreeable half hour with them, giving them a brief outline of our quar-
rel and war. Dined on board the Chinese gunboat Kwan-tung, Com-
mander Young. This is one of Lairds side-wheel steamers, built for
Captain Sherrard Osbornes fleet. Captain Bickford, of the Narcissus,
and Lieutenant Wood, flag lieutenant, dined with us.
	Tuesday, August 11.Weather fine. Visited the flagship of Rear-
Admiral Sir Baldwin W. Walker and the Kwan-tung. Employed calk-
ing and refitting ship. Many visitors on board.
	Wednesday, August 12.Wind fresh from the southward and east-
ward. Photographers and visitors on board. The Kwan-tung made a
trial trip of her engines, after having repaired them, with the admirals
family on board. Wind freshened to a gale toward night.
	Thursday, August 13.Weather cloudy; blowing a moderate gale
from the S. E. The Tuscaloosa is ready for sea, but is detained by the
weather. Dined with Rear Admiral Walker. Governor Sir Philip
Wodehouse and lady were of the party. My sailors are ~~layiiig the
d l~ as usual. They manage to get liquor on board the ship, and
then become insubordinate and unruly. We have to force some of them.
into irons. The man Weir, whom I have made a quartermaster, has
mu off; also two of the stewards and two din gey boys. The latter were
apprehended and brought on board.
	Friday, August 14.We have a dense fog to-day and calm. The Tus-
ealoosa, which went out at daylight, anchored some 4 or 5 miles outside
the harbor. The mail steamer from England arrived at Cape Town to-
day, bringing us news of Lees invasion of Maryland and Pennsylvania.
Finished our repairs this evening.
	Saturday, August 15.We were ready to get underway at daylight
this morning, but were delayed by the dense fog until 11 oclock, when
we moved out of the harbor. As we neared the cape another fog ban

Page 761

	OPERATIONS 01 THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	761

rolled over and enveloped us for a couple of hours. At 2:30 boarded
an English bark. At 3 let the steam go down and raised the propeller.
Weather threatening. Barometer 29.80. Took siiigle reefs in the top.
sails. At 11 p. m. a steamer passed close to leeward of us.
	Sunday, August 16.Weather thick, with rain; wind from the north-
ward and westward. At meridian it lifted a little, the rain ceased, and
we got a sight of the land and latitude. Weather unsettled, a low and
falling barometer, and every appearance of a blow. Sighted a couple
of sail to windward. Latitude 340 30 5., the Cape of Good Hope bear-
ing about E., distant some 20 miles.
	Monday, August 17.Weather clear and cool, with the wind light
from the southward and westward, and a heavy sea. At 7:30 a. m.
sent a boat on board of an English ship from Bombay for Belfast.
The masters wife being in need of medical aid, sent the surgeon on board
to prescribe for her. A bark descried to windward at 10:30. Holding
our wind, but this chase is hopeless without steani, and the chances
being about twenty to one that a given sail is neutral, it would be a
waste of coal to get up steam for pursuit. Latitude 340 3 30, longi-
tude 170 11.
	Tuesday, August 18.At 7 a. m. sent a boat on board of an English
ship, from Calcutta to London. Three other sail in sight, all to
windward, but little hope of overhauling any of them before night.
Latitude 330 24, longitude 160 56. Light airs and calm during the
afternoon and night.
	Wednesday, August 19.Light airs and calm; weather fine. At 2
p. m. sent a J~oat on board of an English bark from Natal for London.
Latitude 320 52 44, longitude 170 9. Land in sight from the mast-
head.
	Thursday, August 20.Weather variable. In the early morning we
had a densely overcast sky, at 11 a. m. clear, bright sunshine, and at
1 p. m. a sky again entirely overcast with black clouds and a misty
rain setting inprobably precursors of a gale from the N. W. Lati-
tude 320 45, longitude 160 55. We have thus been baffled with thick
weather, light airs, and calms for five days, being to-day only 120 miles
distant from the cape.
	Friday, August 21.Morning cloudy, with an occasional sprinkle of
fine rain; wind fresh from the N. W.; ship under single reefs. Lati-
tude 330 14 46, longitude, ID. It., 150 41. At 2: 30p. m. ran off before
the wind some 10 miles, and showed the United States colors to a
Dutch bark. Hauled up on the starboard tack.
	Saturday, August 22.Latitude 320 13 19, longitude 160 8 30.
At 3 p. m. sent a boat on board of an English ship from Bombay for
Liverpool. Blowing a moderate gale, with thick weather all night.
	Sunday, August 23.The gale has broken, the wind having hauled to
the southward and westward and become light, leaving a rough, irreg-
ular sea, in which we are rolling and tumbling about. Had the usual
jail delivery upon coming out of port; read the proceedings of the
court-martial and a general order. Intemperance and rascality seem
to have taken a deep hold of my villains, and it is troublesome to
manage them, whenever it [is] possible for them to get drunk and make
beasts of themselves. Latitude 310 43 34, longitude 15~ 30. At
sunset sent a boat on board of a Dutch bark from Batavia for Amster-
dam; had seen no American vessels.
	Monday, August 24.Latitude 31~ 24, longitude 140 34 30. At
5 p. m. sent a boat on board another Dutch bark from Batavia for
Amsterdam

Page 762

762 OPERATIONS OF TflE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Tuesday, August 25.Dense, cloudy morning; got a glimpse of the
sun and latitude at 12 oclock. Our fresh-water condenser is about
giving ont, the last supply of water being so ~ilt as to be scarcely
drinkable. This will be a serious disaster for us if we can not remedy
it at Cape Town, for we have no tank room for more than eight days
supply and no place to store casks except on deck, where they would
interfere with the guns. And so I have borne up to run for Angra
Pequena, where I expect to pick up my prize crew, that I may return
to Simons Bay to see what can be done without further delay. I am
quite knocked up with cold and fever, but sick as I may be I can never
lie by and be quiet, the demands of duty being inexorable and inces-
sant. Latitude 31~ 18, longitude, ID. It., 130 37.
	Wednesday, August 26.Weather clear; wind very fresh from the
S. B.; atmosphere hazy. We have experienced an offshore set of about
a mile an hour, or it may be that the ship has been run off her course.
Latitude 270 57 17, longitude 14~ 12 30. Soon after nightfall
shortened sail and stood off and onfour hours off and two hours on
during the night.
	Thursday, August 27.Morning fine. Made all sail at early daylight,
and stood in for the land, having every promise of getting latitude at
meridian for position and running in to an anchor [age] early in the
afternoon, but an ominous fog bank that we had noticed hanging over
the land for a short time before suddenly enveloped us at 8 and shut us
in so completely as to render it difficult to see a hundred yards in any
direction, the wind the while blowing fresh from the south; weather
cool and uncomfortable and the rigging dripping rain. Hove to and
awaited aniiously the disappearance of the fog, but hour after hour
passed and still no change. Six, seven bells struck, and the fog
appeared to grow more dense and the wind to increase. Wore ship
and put her head off shore; went below and turned in in supreme dis-
gust. At 1:30 aroused by the report that there was a topsail schooner
close aboard. She ran down for us, when we backed main topsail and
sent a boat and brought the master on board. lie being, like our-
selves, bound into Angra, consented to pilot us in. Filled away and
made sail. We were to-day at noon, by computation, W. S. W. from
Pedestal Point (Angra), distant about 10 miles. The fog continued
most relentlessly unto 4 p. in., when it disappeared, and we wore ship
for the land and were probably on the point of making it just at sunset,
when the fog came on again and enveloped everything in impenetrable
darkness. Wore ship seaward, and stood off and on during the night,
the weather blustering.
	Iriday, August 28.Morning cloudy; wind blowing half a gale. At
8:50 took a single reef in the topsail; the schooner in sight to leeward.
At 9:30 made the land, and soon came in hill view of it. My would-be
pilot conld not recognize it until the schooner, having run in ahead of
us, ran down to leeward, by which we knew that she had made out our
position. I followed her and ran in and anchored in Sheerwater [Shear-
water] Bay, my pilot being of no sort of assistance to me, he showing
a very imperfect knowledge of the locality. Soon after anchoring a
boat came out of the lagoon to us and we recognized some of our prize
crew of the &#38; a Bride in her, with Captain Elmstone. In effect, the
Tuscaloosa and the prize had both been three days in the harbor of
Angra Pequefia, Elmstone having concluded the purchase of the prize
in the sum of 3,500, and paid the money over to Low, who brought it
on board in the afternoon. Low is still busy discharging his wool to
IDe Pass, Spence &#38; Co., according to my contract with Anderson (Wi

Page 763

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	763

11am, of the firm of Anderson, Saxon &#38; Co.). Later in the afternoon
we got up our anchor again and ran into the lagoon, and anchored near
the Sea Bride in 7 fathoms water. The agreeni~nt with Anderson
about the wool (and any other articles I may land at a future day) is,
that he is to ship it to an agent in Liverpool, who is to sell it, and two~
thirds of the net proceeds are to be deposited to my credit, say in the
Bank of Liverpool. A number of the officers are off this evening to
visit the Tuscaloosa, no doubt to get a good drink of flesh water. I
have sent my pitcher for some, being nearly parched up with the salt
water we have been drinking for the last three days. We are lying in
smooth water, in a snug harbor, and I hope to get what I have not had
for several nightsa good nights rest. A more bleak and comfortless
prospect in the way of landscape could scarcely present itself to the
eye. Nothing but sand and rock; not a sprig of vegetation of any
kind to be seen. In fact, it never rains here, and this is consequently
a guano region. We passed a baiik of gumo on Halifax Island, a
shanty, and a few laborers, and a large army of penguins spread out
with much solemnity on the island.
	Saturday, August 29.A dense fog from early moridng to near noon;
wind light from the north in the morning, hauling to the south in the
afternoon. Getting on board flour, etc., from the Sea Bri5e, and water
trom Elmstones schoonerl,500 gallonswhich will enable inc to cruise
some twenty days before running in to repair my condenser. Hauled
a borrowed seine in the afternoon and caught a fine lot of fish.
	Sunday, August 30.Weather clear. At 10:30 mustered the crew
and landed James Adams, ordinary seaman, discharged by sentence of
court-martial with forfeiture of pay and prize money. Blowing a mod.
erate gale of wind in the afternoon and night; veered chain.
	]Ifonday, August 31.Weather perfectly clear. At 7 a. m .got under-
way under sail and stood out of the harbor. At 8 took in topgallant
sails, and at 9 single reefed the topsails, it blowing a moderate gale of
wind from the S. S. W. (compass). IRan off west, but saw nothing of
Admiral Woods shoal, nor do any of the coasters know anything about
it.	Latitude 260 51, longitude 140 40.
	Tuesday, September 1.Wind clouds and patches of clear sky; wind
from the south; current 30 miles,N.W.byW.
	Wednesday, September 2.Weather fine; wind light, from the west-
ward; sea smooth. At 10 a. in. sent a boat on board the English ship
Puujaub, from the East Indies for London. Latitude 280 37 8, longi-
tude 100 13.
	Thursday, September 3.At 3 a. m. sent a boat on board of an English
bark from the East Indies for London, with coffee. Latitude 290 43 42,
longitude 80 59.
	Friday, September 4.Latitude 3Q0 4 iS, lougitude 80 46 30. We
are on the Yankee track, but see no Yankees. They no longer pursue
the beaten road. At 8:30 p. m. a steamer passed to windward of us,
steering about S. E. by S., probably the English mail steamer, due
about this time and bound for the cape.
	Saturday, September 5.Latitude 3Q0 24 8, longitude 90 28.
	Sunday, September 6.Latitude 300 35 9, longitude 110 16 30.
This morning we turned steam on our condenser and found it entirely
destroyed. Put the ships company upon one-half gallon of water per
day. Mustered the crew and read the articles of war.
	Monday, September 7.After several days of light airs and cahus,
the wind is whistling through rigging to-day, and we have a gale of
wind from the S. E. Under single reefs and bonnets off. Latitud

Page 764

764 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

310 17 3,ion gitude 110 730. We liave a hard struggle to get to the
eastward; but patience! All things endeven gales of wind. Just
before night we descried a sail running to the nol#thward and westward.
Bore up a point, and in attempting to turn a reef out of the topsails
split the main topsail. Took the close reef in the fore again and bent
a new main topsail. By this time we had run down pretty close to the
chase, which showed English colors and was evidently English. She
was from Bombay for Liverpool. While wearing, to haul on a wind on
the port tack, descried a topsail schooner by the wind. We had a
rough, ugly night of it, with a continuance and even increase of the
gale and a short, abrupt sea, into which the ship occasionally rolled
and pitched with violence, frequently thumping my cot against the
beams overhead and awaking me. Shipped large quantities of water
through the propeller well; cabiii deck leaking.
	Tuesday, September 8.Weather cloudy, the sun shining faintly
through the gray mass. Gale continues, the wind (E. S. E.) not having
varied a hair for the last sixteen hours; barometer gradually falling.
Ship rolling and pitching in the sea and all things dreary looking and
uncomfortable. I am supremely disgusted with the sea and all its
belongings. The fact is, I am past the age when men ought to be sub-
jected to the hardships and discomforts of the sea. Seagoing is one
of those constant strifes which none but the vigorous, the hardy, and
the hopefalin short, the youthful, or, at most, the middle-aged
should be engaged in. The very roar of the wind through the rigging,
with its accompaniments of rolling and tumbling, hard, overcast skies,
etc., gives r~e the blues. This is a double anniversary with me. It was
on the 8th of September that I received my first order for sea service
(1826), and it was on the 8th of September that Worths division fought
the battle of Molino del Itey (1847). What a history of the United
States has to be written since the last event! How much of human
weakness and wickedness and folly and scoundrelism generally has
been developed in these years. But the hyenas of the North will
receive their reward under the inevitable and rigorous laws of a just
government of the world. Latitude 31~ 41 29, longitude 110 16 30.
During the afternoon, the weather having moderated somewhat, over-
hauled three English ships and one English bark; sent a boat on board
one of the ships, the Cameronian, from Calcutta for Liverpool.
	Wednesday, September 9.Blowing a gale of wind from the opposite
quarter to-day, W. N. W. Soon after dark last night the wind ceased
suddenly and a very light air came out from the northward and west-
ward, which was a gale by this morning. At meridian showed colors
and exchanged signals with an English bark, from Calcutta for London.
She saluted our flag, but the rascals sometimes salute the Yankee flag,
too, when we have it up. John Bull has become so rich that he is as
politic as timid. If conscience makes cowards of us all, so does
gold. Latitude 320 30 11, longitude 12~ 49. At 9 p. in. came up with
a ship nuder reefed topsails on the port tack and fired a gun, and soon
after ranged up within speaking distance and ordered her to heave to.
The master wanted to know what I wanted him to heave to for, who I
was, he was no English man-of-war, etc., and, seeming disposed to be
obstinate, I told him I would fire into him unless he complied; that I
would send a boat to inform him who I was, etc., and gave an order to
have the bow gun shotted, and, finally, directed a musket to be got
readyall within hearing of the stupid fellowbefore he backed his
main topsail, He proved to be the English ship Flora, from Manila for
Liverpool. He was quite insolent to the boarding officer, who reporte

Page 765

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	765

us as the U. S. S. Ticonderoga, and at first refused to produce his papers,
but finally brought them out, upon being told by the boarding officer
that he would give him two minutes, and if he did ~ot produce them he
would find a way to make him. He said he had heard some news we
would be glad to hear, but he would not tell us, etc. Just as the officer
was about to shove off he told him that Manila had been destroyed by
an earthquake while he lay in the harbor. The gale abated during the
afternoon.
	Thursday, September 10.Weather cloudy; wind from the northward
and westward, hauling in the afternoon to S. W. Weather looks un-
settled all around the horizon. Latitude 330 16 40, longitude 150 20
45. An easterly current of a knot and a half per hour.
	Friday, September 11.Weather very fine; wind light from the S. W.
At 6:30 showed the English colors to an English bark after a short
chase. Latitude 330 10, longitude 160 37 30. Thirty.five miles
northeasterly current.
	Saturday, September 12.Latitude 330 43 14, longitude 160 3 30.
Sunday, September 13.Morning very fine, with the wind light from
the S. W., increasing toward noon, and clouding. Table Mountain in
sight, bearing E. S. E., distant about 40 miles. Latitade 330 51 40,
longitude 170 34. No sail in sight! Mustered the crew. How tire-
some is the routine of cruising becoming! Blowing a gale of wind
from the N. W. by nightfall. Under single reefs and trysails, with the
bonnets off. An ugly, short, chopping sea got up during the night,
into which the ship plunged and rolled so as to awaken me every now
and then.
	Monday, September 14.Blowing a gale of wind from the westward,
with an ugly sea on. Lying with single-reefed topsails iu sight of
the cape, with nothing else in sight but the cape pigeons. Latitude
340 28 39, longitude 170 43. The gale abated during the afternoon,
but the sea continued all night.
	Tuesday, September 15.Table Mountain bearing E. at noon, distant
about 50 miles. Latitude 340 26 43, longitude 170 30. Not a sail
has been seen for the last three days.
	Wednesday, September 1G.Weather very fine. At daylight lighted
fires and at 8 a. m. went ahead under steam. Saw nothing during
nearly a whole days steaming, except a bark (neutral) toward evening.
At 3p.m. doubled the Cape of Good Hope and steamed into the anchor-
age at Simons Town, where we came to at about 4:30 p. m. The Van-
derbilt had left on Friday last and was reported to have hovered near
the cape for a day or two. Greatly discouraged by the news from home
Vicksburg and Port Hudson fallen, IRosecranss army marching south-
ward, and Lee having recrossed the Potomac. Our poor people seem
to be terribly pressed by the Northern hordes of Goths and Vandals,
but we shall fight it out to the end, and the end will be what an all-wise
Providence shall decree.
	Thursday, September 17.Weather good. Called on the admiral and
received a visit from the captain of the .Yareissus, Bickford. Various
misrepresentations had been made to the admiral as to my proceedings
since I left, etc., by the U. S. consul, which I explained away. Spent
an agreeable half hour with the admiral and his lady. There being no
coal herethe Vanderbilt having taken it allI made arrangements for
it to be sent to me from Cape Town. Visited the Dutch transport.
	Friday, September 1R.~---Weather pleasant. Took a long stroll up the
hills, permitting the me~ to visit the shore on liberty, and they are
behaving badly, as usual

Page 766

766 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Saturday, September 19.The steamer Kadie arrived with coals for
me from Cape Town. Hauled her alongside and commenced coaling.
Walked on shore and lunched with Captain BickThrd. Dispatched let-
ters for the mail steamer for England. Liberty men drunk and few
returning. Dined with the admiral. A very pleasant party, composed
entirely of naval officersthe captains of the ships present, the captain
snperintendent of the dockyard, etc. After dinner the young ladies
made their appearance in the drawing-room and we had some music.
	Sunday, September 20.Weather very fine. Heeled ship over to get
at the copper around the blowpipe, which was worn off. Visited the
shore at half past 9, took a long walk, dropped in upon the port
captain, and went to church, Father Kiernan saying mass. He is an
earnest, simple-minded Irish priest, with a picturesque little church on
the hillside, and a small congregation, composed chiefly of soldiers and
sailors, a seam an serving mass, Captain [J. H.] Coxon and a couple of
the lieutenants of the squadron being present. Liberty men returning
in greater numbers to-day; the money is giving out and the drunk
wearing off.
	Monday, September 21.Morning cloudy. At daylight hauled the
steamer alongside again, and recommeuced coaling. Called to see the
ladies at the admirals after the dinner, and walked through their quite
extensive garden, winding up a ravine, with a rapid little stream of
water passing through it. Afternoon rainy.
	Tuesday, September 22.Morning cloudy, with showers of rain; wind
hauling to the S. E., and the weather clearing toward noon. Coaling.
A large nuipber of liberty men on shore yet. The Yankee consul, with
usual unscrupulousness, is trying to persuade them to desert, and the
drunken and faithless rascals will, many of them, no doubt, sell them-
selves to him. With one or two exceptions the whole crew have broken
their libertypetty officers and all. With many improvements in the
character of the seaman of the present day in regard to intelligence, he
is as big a drunkard and as great a villain as ever. Finished coaling
this afternoon. Equinoctial weather, blustering and rainy.
	Wednesday, September 23.Itefitting the fore-topmast. Some twenty
men still absent. A few are picked up by the Simons Town police for
the sake of the reward; and the sailor landlords, those pests of all sea-
ports, are coining on board and presenting bills against the drunken
rascals for board, etc. Of course these claims are not listened to. It
is a common contrivance with J ack and these sharks to endeavor to
extort money out of their ships. The process is simple enough. The
landlord gives Jack a glass or two of bad liquor, and, it may be, a meal
or two, and it is agreed between them that a bill of twenty times the
value received shall be acknowledged. The land shark charges in this
exorbitant way for the risk he runs of not being able to get anything.
Knowing the villains well, I did not permit them to impose upon me.
	Thursday, September 24.Blowing a gale from the S. E. Waiting for
the chance of getting over my deserters from Cape Town. Informed
by telegraph in the afternoon that it was useless to wait longer, as the
police declined to act. It thus appearing that the authorities declined
to enable me to recover my men, 14 in number, enough to cripple my
crew, I received on board 11 vagabonds, hungry and nearly shirtless,
to take passage with me out to my own dominions, the high seas; thus
very nearly setting off the number I had lost. Having a high respect
for her Majesty, I made no contract with these fellows in her doinin-
ions. Informed by telegrams from Cape Town that vessels had arrived
reporting the Vanderbilt on two successive days off Cape Agulhas an

Page 767

	OPERATIONS OF TILE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	767

Point Danger. The moon being near its full, I preferred not to have
her blockade me in Simons Bay, as it might detain me until I should
have a dark moon, and being all ready for sea, th~s would have been
irksome, and so, the gale having lulled somewhat toward 9 p. in., 1
ordered steam got up, and at half l)ast 11 we moved out from onr
anchors. The lnll only deceived us, as we had scarcely gotten under-
way before the gale raged with increased violence, and we were obliged
to buffet it with all the force of our four boilers. The wind blew
fiercely, but still we drove her between 5 and 6 knots per hour in the
very teeth of it. Nothing could exceed the peculiar, weird-like aspect
of the scene, as we struggled under the full moonlight with this mid-
night gale. The surrounding mountains and highlands, seemingly at
a great-distance in the hazy atmosphere, had their tops piled with
banks of fleecy clouds remaining as motionless as snow banks, which
they very much resembled, the cold south wind assisting the illusion;
the angry waters of the bay breaking in every direction and occasion-
ally dashing on board of us; the perfectly clear sky, with no sign of a
cloud anywhere to be seen, except those piled on the mountains already
mentioned; and the bright full moon shedding her mysterious rays on
all surrounding objects, illuminating, yet distancing objects; all these
were things to be remembered. And last, the revolving light on the
cape at regular intervals lighting up the renowned old headland. We
passed the cape at about 3 a. in., and bearing away gave her the try-
sails reduced by their bonnets and close-reefed topsails; and I turned
in to snatch a brief repose before the toils of another day should
begin.
	Friday, Sejptember 25.The gale continues, though it has moderated
as we have run off the coast, and the weather has changed. We now
have a succession of rain squalls. Saw two sail, but in the gale did not
chase. At 7:30 let the steam go down and hoisted the propeller.
Delivered the jail, as usual, upon getting to sea, and shipped the men
who came on board of us last night. We shall have to wash them,
clothe them, and feed them awhile before they will be fit for use. It
will take several days, too, to work the grog out of the regular crew
before they will settle down into good habits and cheerfulness. One of
our greatest losses is the Irish fiddler, who ran off with the rest. At
11:30 wore ship and gave chase to a ship showing English colors and
having an English look. Did not board her on account of the gale,
which has freshened again. At 11:45 wore again to the southward.
Latitude 350 26, longitude 18~ 15. The rain squalls have given place
to low-flying white clouds, and with this exception the weather has
become clear. Barometer high, as it always is in these southeasterly
gales. Cloudy and ugly looking toward night.
	Saturday, September 26.Weather changeable; cloudy and clear by
turns. Wind moderate, but still from the S. E. Latitude 370 28 1,
longitude 17~ 58. We are getting into the region in which ice is occa-
sionally fallen in with in the spring season (now), and I have the tem-
perature of the air and water taken every half hour from 7 p. in. until
daylight. Light airs and calm during the night.
	Sunday, September 27.Weather partially clear. A heavy, confused
sea, with a falling barometer, and the wind very light from the N. W.
To-day is the fifty-fourth anniversary of the birth of the unworthy
writer, How time flies as we advance toward old age! May God in
His mercy protect and preserve us and restore us before another anni-
versary shall roll round, in peace to our families. How strange seems
the drama of human life when we look back upon it; how transient

Page 768

768 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

how unsatisfying! My life has been one of great vicissitude, but not of
calamity or great suffering, and I have reason to be thankful to a kind
Providence for the many favors I have received% I have enjoyed life
to a reasonable extent, and I trust I shall have fortitude to meet with
Christian calmness any fate that may be in store for me, and to undergo
the great change, which awaits us all, with composure avid a firm reli-
ance upon the justice and goodness of God. My dear family I consign
with confidence to His care, and our beloved country I feel certain He
will protect and preserve, and in due time raise up to peace, independ-
ence, and prosperity. Our struggle must be just and holy in his sight,
and as He governs the world by inexorable laws of right and wrong,
the wicked and cruel people who are seekiiig our destruction can not
fail to be beaten back and destroyed. But it may be His pleasure to
scourge us severely for our past sins and unworthiness, and to admit
us to His favor again only when we shall have been purified. Finally,
I have an abiding confidence that whatever is right the just laws of
nature will work out. Latitude 370 52 5, longitude 190 3. Air,
	590	0; barometer 2969~
	water 60	, . , distance run, 60 miles; current, 40
miles, S. E. At 10 p. m. overhauled a sail steering a point or two more
to the eastward than ourselvesa hermaphrodite brig. Did not com-
municate, as it was blowing a gale of wind and the small craft was
probably not Yankee.
	Monday, &#38; ptember 28.Cloudy weather, with a fresh gale from the
N.	W. Barometer, noon, 29.57; air, 600 (night); water, 630; current,
18 miles, E. S. E.; distance, 206 miles. Latitude 390 2 32, longitude
23~ 7. The night set in very ugly looking; heavy black clouds, with
rain and lightning, in the north, the wind hauling in that direction;
barometer 29.50. The weather improved, however, as the night ad-
vanced, and we had partial benefit of the light of the moon to enable
us to avoid a chance iceberg.
	Tuesday, Sejptember 29.Weather clear, with passing squalls and
light rain; wind from about N. N. W. to N. and moderate, freshening
toward noon aud veering more to the westward. Barometer has been
steady at 29.50 for some hours; air during the night, 540; water, 540; dis-
tance run, 200 miles; current, 35 miles, E. N. E. Latitude 390 2 10,
longitude 27~ 20 54. Afternoon: Weather fine; barometer down to
29.49; cloud baiiks in the N. E. and S. E. All the port studding sails
set. Water green, as if there were from (30 to 75 fathoms; probably on
the Canning Bank.
	Wednesday, September 30.Rough weather, with the wind fresh from
the N. N. W., with passing rain squalls; sea turbulent. Barometer,
29.47; air (night), 550; water, 580; distance run, 221 miles. The ship
has outrun her log 6 or 7 miles, more I)robably from the heave of the
sea than from a current. Weather looking better at noon. The water
has resumed its usual deep-sea hue. In high southern latitudes in the
Indian Ocean the storm spirit seems to hold high carnival all tIme year
round. He is constantly racing round the globe from west to east, his
labors, like those of Sisyphus, never ending. He lashes the ocean into
an unceasing rage, scatters the icebergs here and there, and sends the
tall billows breaking over theni furiously amid tempests of snow and
hail and rain. In a dark night the navigator has only to tie all fast
and let his ship run, keeping the best lookout he can- but this does not
amount to much, even with the aid of the water thmerm~meter. lie runs
his ship with somewhat the feeling of the desperate gambler, who shuts
his eyes and holds his breath as he throws his fortune, whatever that
may be. Many a stanch ship, never heard of has no doubt been shiv

Page 769

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	769

ered into a thousand fragments against these polar pitfalls of the mari-
ner, and their crews have sunk amid the roar of the tempest and the
crash of the ice. Latitude 390 12, longitude 31~ 59 18. An ugly
night, with the gale fresh from the N. N. W., with squalls of rain, and
lightning in the N. E. and S. E. Barometer rising. We have a moon,
but the rain clouds obscure it.
	Thursday, October 1.Weather more moderate this morning; wind
still from the N. N. W., hauling occasionally to N. W. and inclining to
be light; an ugly sea remaining, however. Barometer has at last risen,
and that without a change of wind; it is now (noon) 29.85. The wind
is now, however, about W. by S., and will probably go round to the S. W.
before the barometer regains its usual good-weather range. Air,530
water, 570; distance run, 182 miles; current, 20 miles, east. Latitude
390 15 42, longitude 350 46 30. I have hauled her three-quarters of
a point more to the eastward (E. S. E. 4 5.) to run between a couple of
dangers marked doubtful upon the chart. From present appearances
we are not likely to be up with them to-night. Wind hauled in a squall
in afternoon to S. and S. by W., and barometer rose to 30.
	Friday. October 2.An uncomfortable, wintry day, with a clouded
sky and a fresh breeze from about S. S. W. We have had a set to the
northeast in the last twenty-four hours of 47 miles. Air, 490; water,
540 (night); barometer (noon), 30.25; distance run, 160 miles. Latitude,
observed, 380 27 50; longitude, 390 2. In consequence of having
struck this northeasterly current my course failed to run me between
the two dangers intended (the two southern positions), but it ran me
between the two northern. From latitude and longitude of yesterday
I made good a course of E. by N. ~ N. (true), and ran up to noon to-day
160 miles. This course and distance (both deduced from observation)
ran me within from 2 to 3 miles of the middle danger and 5 or 6 of the
northern, but no sign of any shoal or other danger whatever was seen.
The sea remained deep blue, and, it being rough, a breaker might easily
have been seen from the masthead 7 or 8 miles or farther. These two
dangers should be removed from the chart. They probably were put
there upon the cock and bull story of some muddle-headed fellow,
whose beer had been too strong, and who, as it would appear, was too
lazy and too indifferent to the fate of his fellow-seamen (if, indeed, he
believed what he reported) to get a cast of the lead or to endeavor to
rectify by a closer approach the danger which he thought he saw.
	Saturday, October 3.At daylight made a sail half a point on the
port bow. Gave chase, and at 8:30, making her out to be a steamer,
we got up steam, lowered the propeller, hauling on a wind for awhile
to wait for the steam, lest the stranger should be an enemy, and ran
down npon her and boarded her. She proved to be the English
steamer Mona, from London for Shanghai. Reports that there will be
three New York steamers due at Shanghai about the time that she is.
Air, 440; water, 480; distance run, 180 miles; current, east, 50 miles;
barometer, 30.27. Latitude 38~ 46, longitude 420 49. The tempera-
ture of the water last night was rather icy. The cape pigeon still fol-
lows our wake as industriously as ever, and we have had some alba-
tross around us for several days past. To-day we caught one of these
birds with hook and line. It was quite a lift to get it inboard, it being
so fat and heavy. It measured from tip to tip of wing 10 feet. The
little petrel seems almost to have disappeared since we made the
acquaintance of the cape pigeon on our passage to the Cape of Good
Hope, one or two at a time being seen at rare intervals only. It seems
to prefer the northern hemispheredriven from the south, probably,
N W RYOL u.4

Page 770

770 OPERATIONS OF TilE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

by the larger birds. The great albatross, though very active and pow-
erful on the wing when cresting the billows, and though able to rise
with great facility from the sea, was quite powerless when laid upon
the deck.
	Sunday, October 4.Wind from about S. S. W., and moderate, inclin-
ing to be light toward noon. At 11 mustered the crew and read the
articles of war. Air, 570; water, 600; barometer, 30.33; distance run,
200 miles; current, 33 miles, E. iN. E. Latitude 38~ 43 46, longitude
460 56 6. We are to the eastward of the region in which ice has been
most frequently seen (between longitude 20 and 40.) The ice met
between these meridians in latitude from 360 to 450 50 comes most likely
from the Antarctic continent and returns in the direction of Graham
Land. It would thus have an E. N. E. drift, which is just about the
set of the current driven along here by the constantly prevailing west-
erly winds. Nearly calm all the afternoon, with a dull, leaden sky,
and the weather quite cold; thermometer 48~ in my cabin.
	]llionday, October 5.Morning dull, cloudy, and cool; wind hauled
during the night to N. and is blowing a fresh breeze at noon. Air,
540; water, 600; current, 30 miles east~ distance run, 114
	miles; barom-
eter, 30.14. Latitude 380 47 22, longitude 490 20. The weather con-
tinned to thicken in the afternoon and the wind to increase, with a
falling barometer, indicating the approach of a gale. At 9, the squalls
becoming heavy, took in the topgallant sails and foresail; double reefed
the topsails and took the bonnets off the trysails, and under this sail
we scudded the ship all night, the barometer continuing to fall, the
wind blowing a fierce gale, and the sea running pretty heavily. The
gale has proved to be a cyclone. We were overtaken by the north-
eastern edge of it early this morning, the wind at N. by W. (true). As
we ran about an average of 10 knots all day dac east, or very nearly in
the direction in which the gale proved to be traveling, it gained on us
very slowly, and the wind scarcely varied half a point in eight or nine
hours. Toward night, however, the barometer began to settle more
rapidly, the gale increased, and the wind began to haul more to the
westward, being about W. at 4: 30 a. in., with the lowest barometer
29.65.	The center of the storm was then just abreast of us, bearing S.,
distant, perhaps, a degree or a degree and a half. At 5 a. m. the wind
shifted suddenly from W. to W. S. W. or S. W. by W., showing that the
vortex had passed us. Immediately the barometer began to rise. The
center of the gale having thus passed, I brought the ship by the wind
on the port tack to allow the gale to get a little the start of me, before
I should begin to chase it, that I might have better weather. After
lying to three hours, the barometer continuing to rise and the wind
moderating, though the sea continued heavy and irregalar, I made sail
on my course. From my experience of two weeks from the cape I should
judge that the west winds which traverse the parallel I am running,
390~ are a series of cyclones, and that their vortices do not pass very
far to the south of me.
	Tuesday, October 6.Early morning, blowing a heavy gale; wind
W. S. W., barometer, 29.65, and rising at 5 a.m. Weather thick and
rainy. The clouds so far thinned oft at noon as to enable us to get a
glimpse of the sun through a rather opaque veil. Latitude 38~ 44 18,
longitude, D. II., 530 3d. Barometer, 29.73; air, 600; water, 600; cur-
rent, no observation for; observation afternoon, 26 miles; distance
run, per log, 192 miles. A strong gale from the S. W. durin~ the after-
noon and night, with the barometer rising rapidly, it being at 9 p. m.
29.95.	The dense clouds are dispersuig and an occasional clear patc

Page 771

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	771

of sky is visible. We are getting ahead finely on our course, but this
rough weather tries the ship badly, being so long [in] the heavy,
irregular seas causes her to complain and work i~ every tImber. As
yet she makes but little more than her accustomed water.
	Wednesday, October 7.Another dark, cloudy day, with the wind
moderate from S. S. W. to S., but the sea still rough and irregular,
rendering it quite difficult to get a horizon for observations of the sun,
he being occasionally visible through the thick veil of clouds that were
passing over him. The weather is so damp that everything in the ship
is wet and uncomfortable, and the cold is greater to the feeling than the
thermometer would indicate. Air, 500; water, 570; current, about a
knot an hour, to the northward and eastward, the set of it being very
much influenced by the winds, northerly, with southerly winds and
e converso; distance run, 162 miles; barometer, at noon, 30.12. Lati-
tude 370 51~ longitude 570 30. Nearly calm all the afternoon; weather
still thick, not a star being visible at 8 p. in.; heavy sea continues from
the S. W. Barometer still rising30.15 at 8 p. m. What with the cold
weather, the storms and the calms, and the heavy seas, we have a time
of it. The birds seem to enjoy the bad weather, however, for the harder
it blows the more brisk they are upon the wing, and they collect in
greater numbers around the ship. Both the cape pigeons and the alba-
tross are silent birds, as 1 have not yet heard them utter a note. These
birds live, probably, constantly upon the sea, except in time season of
incubation, and by what wonderful instinct do they find their way, at
the proper time, over a waste of a thousand miles and more of water
to the appointed place. The petrel has disappeared altogether, and we
have a large brown bird in its place, similar in appearance to the alba-
tross, though not quite so large.
	Thursday, October 8.Weather still cloudy and dark, with light rain
accompanying the squalls of wind in the afternoon. The wind has
hauled from S. by W. to W. N. W.; is freshening and blowing a fresh
gale at noon, and the barometer is again falling. Air, 520; water, 580;
barometer, 30.05; current, about Th E. by E., 21 miles; distance run,
138 miles. Latitude 380 427, longitude 600 23. The heavy sea from
the S. W. still continues.
	Friday, October 9.W eather exceedingly capricious. In the early
morning we had a bright sky for an hoar or two, when it thickened and
became cloudy again. The heavy southwesterly swell still continues.
Air, 540; water, 570; barometer, 30; current, N. E. by E., 25 miles;
distance run, 185 miles. We are out two weeks from the cape to-day,
and are 2,400 miles distant from it, having averaged 171 miles per day,
which is very good running; but then we have been kicked on end
all the time, with very little comfort and a good deal of wind and sea;
but these are always the penalties one pays for good runs. Ships do
not make good passages, any more than we obtain any of the other
goods of life, without strife and labor. Latitude 38~ 16 53, longitude
640 15 30. During the afternoon the weather cleared amid began to
be fine with trade (N. W. l) clouds, though rather angry looking.
But so sudden are the atmospheric changes in this inhospitable part
of the Indian Ocean that at about 9 p. m. a dense, black squall, with
rain, overtook us, and in the course of half an hour the whole heavens
were overcast; the wind shifted suddenly from N. W. to W., and blew
a gale the remaindeir of the night. Barometer from 29.85 to 29.90. In
the course of two hours we were, from topgallant studding sails, reduced
to single-reefed topsails

Page 772

772 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	~3aturday, October 10.Weather ugly looking all around; wind blow-
ing a gale and squally from S. W. Air, 540; water, 560; barometer,
29.86has been fluctuating a few hundredths; current, 25 miles, N. E.;
distance run, 220 miles. Latitude 38~ 26 30, longitude 680 57.
Afternoon:	Weather continues hard looking, and wind remains remark-
ably steady at about S. W. by W. If the shift of wind which occurred
last night indicated the passing by us of a cyclone, traveling, like our-
selves, to the eastward, the nnchangeableness of the wind, both in
direction and force, since the morning (now 5 p. in.) would show that
we are now traveling at about the same rate as the gale. The barom-
eter remaining stationary, too (29.86), would show the same thing,
since it should rise if the gale outstripped us, and fall if we gained on
it.	Blowing up cold; wind quite piercing, although the temperature is
only about 52g. Wind moderated during the night.
	~S~unday, October 11.Cloudy, with aa occasional patch of blue sky
visible; wind moderate, fi-om about W. S. W., inclining to be light
toward noon. Barometer, 29.96; air, 510; water, 580; current, 24 miles,
N. E.; distance run, 184 miles. Latitude 380 28, longitude 72~ 40 57.
At 11 a. m. mustered the crew. Afternoon: Weather still thick; wind
has backed to the N. W. and the barometer is again falling, being now,
at 4:30 p. in., 29.93. The wind continued to back during the night
until it reached N. (true), the barometer still falling. At about 10
p. in. it blew a moderate gale, which continued to increase during
the night, driving her along 12 to 13 knots per hour, under topgallant
sails and a topmast studding sail.
	Monday, October 12.An ugly-looking morning, with the wind blow-
ing a fresWgale from the N. (true) and a falliug barometer; weather
thick and rainy in squalls. We gradually shortened sail as the wind
increased, until at 11 a. in. we had the ship under single-reefed top-
sails and fore trysail. At 11:30 the island of St. Paul was made
through the gloom and rain, bearing about E. by S. The barometer at
this time had reached 29.70, its lowest point, when suddenly the
wind shifted from N. to W. S. W., heading us off as we were endeavor-
ing to pass the south end of the island, and began to blow very heavily,
raising a very heavy sea. Called all hands, close reefed the topsails
and trysails, and brought the ship by the wind on the port tack, to
pass the north end of the island. The wind in the meantime canted
back a couple of points, bringing the island under our lee beam, and
as the weather was very thick and the wind was blowing with such
violence as to permit us to carry very little sail, and increasing, too, all
the while, I felt anxious lest we might be driven headlong upon a lee
shore without being able to help ourselves. However, the weather
soon lifted enough to enable us to see the land again, which the first
burst of the shift had hidden from our view, and we discovered that
we were not so close upon it as I had feared, and that we had several
points to spare under our lee, and so we gradually bore up until we
passed this desolate little solitary in the midst of the great Indian
Ocean, some5or6 miles to the~northward of it, having a very good
view of its sere and yellow sides with our glasses. There being anchor-
age under the lee, we kept a lookout to see if perchance a Yankee
whaler or seal catcher might be there, but all was lonely and desolate.
Latitude 380 46 27, longitude 770 12 24. Air, 510; water, 520;
barometer, 29.70; current, 24 miles, E. N. E.; distance run, 215 miles.
We have thus accomplished the run from the meridian of the Cape of
Good llop6 and latitude 370 30 to the island of St. Paul in sixteen
days, the distance being 2,840 and the average daily run 177k miles

Page 773

	O?El~ATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	773

The total of currentalways to the eastwardhas been 442, or between
a sixth and a seventh of the whole distance run. The winds have
never been contrary, but always between N. and Sjtrue), veering from
the N. by W. to S. and backing irregularly in the opposite direction.
	The gale to-day would seem to be cyclonic, both the veering and
shifting of the wind and the fall and rise of the barometer being in
accordance with the theory of these rotatory gales. We were in the left-
hand semicircle of the gale, and of course the vortex passed to the
southward of us, the track being from W. to E. Night: Weather
ugly, wind blowing very heavy in squalls, from about S. W. by W.
(true), and a heavy sea, causing the ship to lurch very heavily occa-
sionally. Scudding under close-reefed topsails with the foresail furled.
Barometer rising slowly, 29.92 at 9:30 p. m. There seems to be no Let-
up to the bad weather on this parallel at this season of the year, and
it must be still worse in winter. With short intervals of good weather
in the summer months, St. Paul must be the scene of a perennial gale,
the wind rushing and howling constantly from W. to E. And yet this
is a beneficent arrangement for commerceif there was not quite so
much of a good thingfor while these west winds waft the ships to the
far east with railroad speed, the counter system of S. E. trade winds,
a few hundred miles farther north, performs the same office for the
returning ships. These latter winds, though not generally so boister-
ous, are still fraught with their dangers, since they are occasionally
interrupted by the terrible water tropical cyclones, the vortices of which
seem to tear up the very foundations of the deep in their course.
	Tuesday, ~Actober 13.Weather still unsettled, with heavy banks of
clouds pretty much all around the horizon, with occasional sunshine
through the breaks; wind moderate from about S. W., with rain
squalls; sea heavy; ship rolling uncomfortably; decks have been wet
for two weeks. Air, 490; water, 520; barometer, 30.04; current, 9 miles,
N. by E. ~ E. (bad steering?); distance run, 159 miles. Latitude 380 15
21; longitude 80~ 29 54. It was my intention to have cruised a day
or two in the vicinity of St. Paul, but the bad weather has driven me
on. A heavy, long sea during the afternoon, with the scene occasion-
ally quite wild looking.
	Wednesday, October 14.We have had a comparatively clear day
to-day, more sunshine than we have had for a couple of weeks, and we
are airing clothes, bedding, etc., trying to get things a little dry once
more, for the ship, though stanch and sufficiently tight, by the work-
ing of her seams in the heavy weather we have had, has taken in water
enough through the seams of the bends to wet all the bedding in the
wardroom and to leak down a little into my bookcases, etc. Like all
our other blessings, we only appreciate the value of sunshine after we
have been deprived of it for awhile. Air, 510, and I have been nearly
frozen all the time; water, 530; barometer, 30.10; current, 24 miles,
N. E. by N.; distance run, 156 miles. I am bearing away now more to
the northwardthe sunny North! Latitude 370 47, longitude 830 42
30. Afternoon: Wind backing, with a falling barometer, indicating
another blow and another spell of bad weather.
	Thursday, October 15.Weather cloudy, with the wind fresh from about
N. by W. Air, 540; water, 550; current, 10 miles, eastward; barome-
ter, 2983; distance run, 192 miles. Carried away a topmast studding
sail boom iron and parted the port leech of the maintopsail. Bent
another. A gale of wind set in as the night came on. 10:30 p. in.:
Barometer, 29.62, and falling; wind about N. (true), and very steady,
inclining, if anything, to cant a little to the eastward. The vortex I

Page 774

774 OPERATIONS OF TIlE ORIJISERSCONFEDERATE.

just astern of me, and if it should happen to be traveling to the north-
ward of east it may pass over me, instead of to the southward, as the
others have done. At any rate, there is no reme~Iy for it now. XV e are
under close-reefed topsails and trysails, and on the right tack (port), as
I must be rather [to] left hand of the circles. The gale continuing to
increase, brought the ship by the wind under the close-reefed main top-
sail,, and close-reefed trysails at 10:30 p. m. Latitude 360 50 15,
longitude 870 36. The barometer continued to go down from this time
until 2:10 a. m. Friday, October 16, when it reached 29.40, its lowest
point, and the wind blew very heavily in squalls, accompanied with
showers of rain and hail, the night being black and ugly looking and
the wind hauling and roaring loudly over the wild waste of waters.
During the last four hours the wind hauled from N. by W. (true) to W.
(true), and at 2: 15 the barometer began to rise, but very slowly. The
deck was flooded with water and the ship was struck by some very
heavy seas, the sea being confused and tumultuous, as might be sup-
posed from the veering of the gale. At about 6 a. m. one of these mon-
sters struck the gigour best quarter boatand instantly destroyed it.
The ship begins to complain in these gales, making a little more water
than usual. At 8:30 set the fore-topsail and bore up on onr course E.
N. E., the wind having moderated, but still blowing fresh in thick,
black rain and hail squalls, with a heavy sea. The ship is much easier,
of course, running before it than lying to. This is the fourth well-
marked circular gale that we have had in the last three weeks. The
center of this storm must have passed at a greater distance to the
southward qf us than the others, as the bearings of the wind were
much more regular, and we had no sudden shift. Still the gale was
much the most violent we have had. Latitude 350 23 1
55. Air, 550; water, 540; no observation for current-p ongitude 890
distance run,
135 miles, the gale, in which we lay to ten hours, having broken in
upon our day~s work; barometer 29.57, and on a stand. Running
before the wind under close reefs and reefed foresail. Afternoon:
Gale increased, and between 12 and 1 it blew furiously, the whole sea
being a sheet of foam, the air rendered misty by the spray, and the
heavy seas threatening to jump on board of us, although we were scud-
ding at the rate of very little less than 15 knots, the whole accompanied
by an occasional snow squall from dark, threatening-looking clouds.
It is not often that a wilder scene is beheld. In the meantime the
cape pigeons are whirling around us, occasionally poising themselves
against the storm as serenely, apparently, as if the elements were at
rest. The barometer has remained perfectly stationary at 29.57 dur-
ing this blow for seven hours (from meridian to 7 p. in.) without vary-
ing a single hundredth, during all of which time the gale was raging
with unmitigated violence from about S. W. by W. to S. W. During this
period we were traveling at about an average speed of 11 knots, and
of course this must have been the rate of speed of the vortex, distant
from us probably 150 to 200 miles. At 7 p. m. the mercury began to
rise slowly, and at 8 was at 29.60, the weather looking less angry and
the squalls not so frequent or violent. Verily, our good ship, as she
is, darted ahead on the top of one of these huge, long Indian Ocean
waves that pursue her, seems like a mere cockboat. It is remarkable
that this is the anniversary of the cyclone we took off the Banks of
Newfoundland.
	Saturday, October 17.The gale still continues. It blew very heavily
all night in squalls, and the sea was very heavy. The barometer has
been almost stationary for the last twelve hours, having risen .04 fro

Page 775

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	775

8 p. m. yesterday to 8 a. m. this morning (29.64); a tight race between
the gale and ourselves, each of us traveling about 250 miles per day.
This morning the weather looks better, the sun shining out brightly
between the heavy rain squalls; wind S. W. MeNdian: Wind not so
violent in squalls; sea continues quite as heavy. Barometer, 29.65,
rising by scarcely perceptible degrees; air, 470; water, 550; northeast-
erly set, probably heave, of the sea, about 12 miles; distance run, 230
miles. Latitude 32059/28, longitude 930 28. I am to-day about antipo-
dal with my home in Alabama, being about 3~0 farther south than the
true antipodal line would require. The longitude is nearly exactly coin-
cident, my house being in about 880 W.; and 88~ W.930 E.=1810.
Well, there is one comfort, I can not very well get any farther away
from home. Every day~s run from this point, whether east or west,
must carry me nearer to it, so that whether I look east, or whether
I look west, I am looking equally toward home. When will the
Almighty, in His providence, permit me to return to it ~ The merciful
veil that hides from as the future keeps this secret likewise. After-
noon: The gale continued, though moderating by slow degrees, the
barometer fluctuating a little from meridian to 7 p. in., it being at 29.64
at the latter hour. At 8 it rose to 29.70. Turned one reef out of the
topsails. We begin to feel the effects of our change of latitude upon
the temperature, it becoming sensibly milder toward nightfall. As we
are now clearly on the equatorial side of ice I have discontinued the use
of the marine thermometer.
	Sunday, October 18.The gale continues, though a good deal mode-
rated. Wind from W. by S. to W. S. W., and sea still heavy. The
barometer has fallen since yesterday, it being now (10 a. in.) 29.66.
The weather looks unsettled and threatening and inclined to clear by
turns; in other words, between a renewal of the gale and fine weather.
As we are approaching the calm belt of Capricorn, probably we shall
have the latter instead of the former. I have intermitted our usual
Sunday muster to-day, the decks being awash all the time and the ship
rolling and tumbling about. Latitude 300 59 27, longitude 960 17 30.
Distance run, 195 miles; current, none; about 8 or 10 miles heave of
the sea; barometer, 29.66. Observing has been particularly vexa-
tious during the past week. What with the heavy seas constantly
rising between the observer and the horizon, preventing him from pro-
dacing a contact at the very instant, it may be, that he is ready for it,
the passage of a flying cloud under the sun, when his horizon is all
right and the heavy rolling of the ship requiring him to pay the utmost
care to the preservation of his balance, and sometimes even to lose
his sight from the necessity of withdrawing one hand suddenly from
his instrument to grasp the rail or the rigging to prevent himself from
falling; what with all these things the patience of eyen as patient a
man as myself is sorely tried. Perhaps this constant, stormy tum-
bling about at sea is the reason why we seamen are so calm and quiet
on shore. We come to hate all sorts of commotion, whether physical
or moral. Afternoon: The gale s broken, the wind having subsided
to a moderate breeze from the W. S. W., and the sea, though still heavy,
going down. The barometer~ however, has remained singularly sta-
tionary for the last twelve hours, it not having moved a single hun-
dredth, and being now (6 p. in.) precisely where it was at 6 a. m.29.66.
Indeed, it has not varied more than .05 in thirty hoursfrom 29.65 to
29.70, and back again. I can only explain this upon the supposition
that we have been traveling all this time parallel with the storm vortex
and at about the same rate. If so, the storm must have curved t

Page 776

776 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

the northward and eastward. The ship is again running along under
her topgallant sails, but the heavy sea does not permit the decks to
dry.
	Monday, October 19.Early morning clear and bright, clouding
toward 10 a. m. The wind has backed to the W. K. W., and the barom-
eter, which had risen to 29.76, has fallen again to 29.74, though I think
we shall not have any bad weather, as we are now some 600 miles north
of the parallel of 39O~ in which we have found the weather so boisterous.
Distance run, 200 miles, with a northeasterly set of 15 or 16 miles.
Latitude 280 26 44, longitude 980 4324. Afternoon: The wind only
freshened so as to reduce us to single-reefed topsails for a few hours; it
then went back to W. and moderated so as to permit us to make sail
again, the barometer going up during the night to 29.79.
	Tuesday, October 20.Morning cloudy, becoming fine toward 10 a. m.
The wind is about W., blowing a good breeze, and the sea is becoming
comparatively smooth. Sunshine and a smooth sea have been rare condi-
tious with us of late. Latitude 250 334, longitude 990 42. Barometer,
29.80; distance run, 178 miles ship about 8 miles ahead of her log.
The local attraction of my compass, with ships head to the northward, is
about one half point easterly. Afternoon: Wind continues at W. IN. W.,
and we are rapidly approaching the tropic; some moonlight; moon well
advanced in her first quarter.
	Wednesday, October 21.Morning cloudy, with clear patches of sky.
We crossed the tropic of Capricorn about 5 oclock this morning, still
holding our west wind, though it is becoming light. We havo thus
found constant westerly winds from the parallel of 390 to the tropic
and from the meridian of the Cape of Good Hope to that of 1000,
having made this run in twenty-four days and three-fourths, the dis-
tance run being 4,410 miles and the average run per day 178 miles. I
presume this run has seldom been beat. Latitude 210 41, longitude
1000 12. Current to the N. E., 20 miles; distance run, 173 miles; bar-
ometer, 28.90. We are at length in the calm belt, the ship having a
speed of only a knot or two, with the wind too light to fill her sails,
which are flapping idly as she moves about on the swell, and there is
always a swell in the great Indian Ocean. The temperature is becoming
agreeable. Exercised the crew at the battery for the first time in three
weeks, owing to the bad weather and constant rolling of the ship.
	Thursday, October 22.Weather fine, with the wind light, hauling
very slowly from the S. W. to S., whence it will probably soon haul to
S. E. A day in the calmshaving made no more than 88 miles. Barom-
eter, 29.97. Latitude 210 13, longitude 1000 10 15. The paymaster
reports that he has neither butter nor coffee on board, although he paid
for three months supply of each, and we are out only twenty-seven days.
Some great neglect of duty somewhere; the proper quantities could
never have been received on board. 8 p. in.: We have the trade wind
from about S. S. E., freshening into a good breeze. We have thus
passed the calm belt of Capricorn without any calm, and have had
light winds only for about 100 miles. Four or five days more and we
may hope to hear the cry of sail, ho! from aloft once more. We
have not been cheered by this cry for nineteen days.
	Friday, October 23.Weather fine, with a fresh trade wind from
about E. S. E. Barometer, 29.98; distance run, 142 miles. A tolerably
smooth sea and sunshine enable us to put the battery in good order,
overhaul the magazine and shell rooms, etc. Latitude 180 52 14,
longitude 1000 10 30. Afternoon: Exercised at general quarters.
Just before night a sail was descried from aloft, on the weather qua

Page 777

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	777

ter, a ship at a long distance running before the wind, probably from
Australia. Did not chase, as it would have been dark before we could
have gotten sight of her from the deck, and we ~hould have lost her.
I should have lost, too, perhaps, 40 or 50 miles in the pursuit, and the
chances were many to one that she was English. Being only about 700
miles from the Strait of Sunda, I am anxious to hurry on and see what
the fortune of war has in store for me. Quid erit? The wind was
fresh and squally during the night, with a clouded sky.
	&#38; tturday, October 24.Morning cloudy; wind fresh, from E. by S.;
clearing as the day advanced. Barometer, 29.95; distance run, 200
miles. Latitade 15~ 45 49, longitude 10l~ 25. The cape pigeons
have disappeared.
	~Sunday, October 25.Dark morning, with dense, black clouds and
slight rain occasionally. Wind about E., and fresh. If this is a fore-
taste of our weather about Java we shall have an ugly time of it. Did
not muster, in consequence of the bad weather, the crew being cleaned,
however, and inspected at quarters. I am quite under the weather
this Sunday morning, the sudden heat and moisture into which we
have plunged having an unfavorable effect upon me. As usual, when
not well, my thoughts turn despondingly toward my home and family,
and my heart becomes sick indeed in contemplating the long, dreary
period which has already elapsed since my separation from both, and
the uncertain future. These are the real sacrifices which a naval officer
makes to his country. The very heartstrings seem to be strained
almost to breaking by this absence of years from those we love. Lati-
tude, D. R., 12~ 26, longitude, D. B., 1020. We have lost the trade
in about latftude 12~ 6.
	Monday, October 26.Cloudy, with a slight but almost continuous
spitting of rain. Sun shining through a dim veil of gauze at noon.
Got his meridian altitude imperfectly. Just before noon boarded our
first sail from the Strait of Sundaan English bark. She brought us
intelligence that the Wyoming (a bark-rigged enemys steamer), accom-
panied by a three-masted schooner, was cruising in the strait between
the island of Krakatoa and Anjer. This is the first time I have found
a pass guarded by the enemy. Latitude 100 27, longitude, D. B., 102~
13 30. The paymaster reports that he is out of beans. Just one
month out. Afternoon and early part of night calm. The Wyoming
being a good match for this ship, I have resolved to give her battle.
She is reported to be cruising under sailprobably with banked fires
and anchors, no doubt, under Krakatoa every night, and I hope to sur-
prise her, the moon being near its full. This is very uncertain, how-
ever, as the rainy season is setting in, and the changes from a bright
to a densely clouded sky are rapid and frequent. We will do our best,
and trust the rest to Providence. May the Almighty crown my enter-
prise with success! The Strait of Sunda has been exempted from all
jurisdiction by treaty, and it and the uninhabited islands therein may
therefore be regarded as the high seas. I shall violate no jurisdictional
right if I assault my enemy within a marine league of one of these
islands.
	Tuesday, October 27.Morning cloudy, the clouds becoming thinner
toward noon, so as to let the sun shine dimly through them. We are
in a flat calm, and have been for nearly twenty hours, and are stewing
to death in the excessive heat, made all the more oppressive by the
moist, inelastic condition of the atmosphere. Latitude 90 55, longi-
tude l01~ 50. Afternoon: Cloudy and close; heat very oppressive. A
very light air, scarcely enough to give the ship steerageway, sprang u

Page 778

778 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

at nightfall. We tried the experiment to-day of shifting over another
broadside gun to see how the ship would bear her battery thus, all on
one side but one gun, giving seven fighting gun~ She bore them well
and we shall be able to fight them without difficulty. For want of
men, however, the crew of the seventh gun will be composed, with one
or two exceptions, of officers.
	Wednesday, October 28.Clear, calm, and hot; thermometer 820 in my
cabin. We have made the long distance of 17 miles in the last twenty-
four hours. Latitude 90 38 38, longitude 1010 51. Putting breech-
ing and gear bolts to afterports for a shifting gun. At 11 p. in. sighted
a sail, which we had altered our course to intercept, just before dark,
she being then visible from the masthead. Gave chase, and at 1:45
a. m. fired a blank cartridge, but it falling nearly calm (we had had quite
a hard squall during the first watch previous), and being at some dis-
tance from her, did not board her until daylight. She proved to be a
Dutch ship from Batavia for Amsterdam. Had been boarded in Anjer
roads on the 23d by a boat from the enemys steamer Wyoming, then at
anchor in Anjer.
	Thursday, October 29.Clear, with passing clouds, and very hot, and
quite calm. Dutch ship still in sight. Latitude 90 20 46, longitude
1010 53 30. Afternoon and night calm.
	Friday, October 30.Clear and cloudy and calm, with squally appear-
ances toward midday. We have made 78 miles in the last four days,
and a good deal of this has been drift. This is the longest and most
tedious calm we have had. Latitude 90 9 11, longitude 1020 14.
	Saturday, October 31.Morning clear and almost calm. At daylight
six sail were descried from aloft, all standing to the southward and
westward, indicating that they were from the Strait of Sunda. Put the
ship under steam at 8:30 a. in. and overhauled four of these sailthree
English ships and a Dutch barkand by the time we had accomplished
this the other two sail were lost to sight, and the afternoon set in dark
and rainy. We learned from the Dutch bark that the Wyoming, being
at Batavia eleven or twelve days ago, and the U. S. consul having heard
that the Alabama was off the Strait of Sunda, was dispatched outside
the strait in pursuit of us, so that we are both probably on the same cruis-
ing ground. The news of our being here could not possibly have
reached Batavia eleven days ago, and indeed can not be there now, so
that the consuls news was mere conjecture. Latitude 80 53 30, lon-
gitude 1020 50 (no observation).
	Sunday, November 1.Morning cloudy, with a fresh breeze from the
northward and westward; weather clearing toward noon. Showed
Dutch colors to a bark that passed 5 or 6 miles to windward of us.
Responded by showing English. Finding a current of 2 knots and
more an hour drifting me to the eastward and to leeward, wore ship
to the westward in the afternoon. A bark to windward of us, English
in appearance. Mustered crew and read articles of war. Latitude
8~ 55 22, longitude 103~ 51.
	Monday, November 2.Weather clear and sun scorching; wind light
from the north. At 7 a. m. wore in chase of a sail. At meridian sent
a boat on board the chase, an English ship from Foo-Chow for Lon-
don. Saw (she) the three-masted steamer in Gaspar Strait. Latitude
90 30 32, longitude 1030 28 30. An easterly current of about 1
4
knots an hour.
	Tuesday, November 3.Weather clear and nearly calm; light airs
from the S. E., a faint effort of thc trade to come thus far toward
the equator. Latitude 90 17 30, longitude 1030 31

Page 779

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	779

	Wednesday, November 4.Weather clear, with a fresh ~ from
the S. E. At meridian sent a boat on board a French ship from
Batavia. Reported the Wyoming at anchor there on the 29th nltimo;
and at 3 p. m. boarded a Dutch bark, also from Batavia. Latitude
80 31 30, longitude 103~ 6.
	Thursday, November 5.Morning clear, clouding toward noon, with
squally appearances in the N. W. Wind light from the S. E. Lati-
tude 70 22 23, longitude 103~ 15.
	Friday, November 6.Morning cloudy, with showers of rain, partially
clearing toward noon. At daylight descried a ship 3 or 4 miles dis-
tant. At 7 sent a boat on board of her; English, from Foo-Chow for
London, with teas, etc. Reported having come out of the strait two
days ago with the American ship Windracer [Winged Racer]. Wind
light from N. W. Latitnde 70~ longitude 1030 19. Having sighted
two ships about noon, I got up steam at 3:30 and chased, in hope that
one of them would prove the Windracer [Winged Racer]. As we came
up they both showed English colors and doubtless were English ships;
and I chased a rakish-looking bark a short distance ahead and to
windward of the ships, she not showing colors. Came up with her
about 5 p. m. She showed United States colors, and proved to be the
bark Amanda, from Manila for Qucenstown for orders. Captured her.

Case of the bark Amanda.

	Ship under United States colors and register; cargo sugar and hemp;
charter party to proceed to Europe or the United States. On the face
of each of the three bills of lading appears the following certificate
from the British vice-consul at Manila:

	I hereby certify that Messrs. Ker &#38; Co., the shippers of the (merchandise specified)
in this 1)111 of lading, are British snbjects, established in Manila, and that, accord-
ing to invoices prodneed, the said (merchandise) is shipped by order and for account
of Messrs. Halliday, Fox &#38; Co., British subjects, of London, in Great Britain.

	As nobody swears to anything, of course this certificate is valueless,
and the presumption of law prevails, viz, that all property found
under the enemys flag is enemys property until the contrary be shown
by competent and credible testimony under oath, duly certified to by
a consular or other officer. Ship and cargo condemned. Night very
dark and squally. Brought on board the prisoners and took from the
prize provisions, sails, and cordage, etc., and at midnight set her on fire
and stood on our course.
	Saturday, November 7.Wind light and variable, and we ather squally
and rainy. Latitude 4P 59 9, longitude 1030 27. I am iuaking my
way for the strait, but the progress is slow, owing to the light and baf-
fling winds.
	Sunday, November 8.Wind moderate from N. W. Soon after day-
light made the land about Flat Point and ran down and anchored
under the east end (bearing S. S. W.) in 17~ fathoms of water, distant
1 mile from the shore. As we were running for the anchorage a bark
was reported standing across our bow, and S00~ afterwards she was
said by those in the lookout to have taken in all sail as if she were a
steamer giving chase. Ordered the fires to be spread, and when we
had come to, with the cable ready for slipping, lowered the propeller.
We soon discovered, however, that her taking in all sail was a mistake, as
she had only shortened to a squall and dewed down her topsails to reef.
Discontinued firing. As she passed astern of us going into the bay we
boarded her. She l)roved to be a Dutch bark from Batavia, bound to
the west coast of Sumatra, coming into the anchorage, like ourselves,
for shelter for the night

Page 780

780 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Monday, November 9.Remained at anchor, and sent a boat to two
or three small Malay villages to procure refreshments, but they were
too poor to have anyeven vegetablesfor sam. Wind from the
N. W. all day, and fresh in the afternoon. Natives all naked, with
breecheloths.
	Tuesday, November 10.At 4 a. m. got underway under sail, in the
midst of a heavy rain. The weather cleared as the day advanced. We
ran along by Keyser Island, etc., at 10:30 lowering the propeller arid
putting the ship under steam. Wind fresh from the westward. Passed
between the islands of Beezee [Sebesi] and Soobooko [Sebuko], both
high and picturesque, the channel about a mile wide. Some villages
under the groves of cocoannt trees on the former, the naked natives
coming down to the beach to gaze at us. We ran through the Strait of
Sunda about 2 p. in., passing to the westward of Thwart the Way
[Thwartway] and close to the Stroom Rock. Soon after passing out of
the strait and shaping our course we descried a clipper-looking ship
under topsails standing toward North Island. Gave chase, although
we were in the midst of a rain squall, and in the corirse of fifteen or
twenty minutes we were near enough to make him show his colors with
a blank cartridge. They were United States, a rid upon being boarded
he proved to be the Winged Racer, for which we had been hunting out.
side the straits. We captured him, and sent him to an anchor about 3
miles from North Island (the island bearing about W. S. W.) and ran
up and anchored near him ourselves. By working hard we were
enabled to get everything we wanted out of him by 2 oclock a. in., and
having dispatched her crew, together with the crew of the Amanda, in
the boats of the prize, at their own request, we got underway at 4
a. m. and steamed out of sight of the coast by daylight. We were for.
tunate enough to get some fowls, fruits, and vegetables from a bomb
[bum] boat (of Malays, who make a business of supplying ships). The
boat reported that when she left Anjer, about two days before, the
Wyoming was there. Fired the ship.

Ca8e of the Winged Racer.

	Ship under United States colors and register, and no claim of the
neutrality of the cargo among the papers; ship bound to New York.
Ship and cargo condemned.
	Wednesday, November 11.Weather cloudy, with the sun showing him-
self through vapory clouds. Made the North Watcher soon after day-
light, and finding that if I con tinned on at the same speed I should be
up with Gaspar Strait early in the night arid would be obliged to
anchor until daylight, I ordered the steam to be let go down, and we
were about making~ arrangements for getting up the propeller when a
sail was descried on the port bow, close hauled on the starboard tack.
She soon proved to be a rakish-looking ship, evidently United States.
Kept away for her from time to time, as she passed toward our bow, and
when we were near enough we showed her the United States colors.
She replied with the same. I then fired a gun and hoisted our own
colors (new flag). Instead of obeying this signal to heave to she iriade
sail and ran. We at once started the fires afresh, the steam having
gone nearly entirely down, and made all sail in pursuit. The chase at
this time was about 4 miles from us, arid for a long time we gained
scarcely anything upon her. We threw a rifle shot astern him, but he
disregarded this also. Finally, after an exciting chase of one hour and
a half (shifting guns and sending men aft to trim ship and giving he

Page 781

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	781

a full head of steam) we came near enough to him to throw a 32-pound
shot between his masts, when he shortened sail, and came to the wind
and hove to. If the wind had been very fresh (i~ was blowing a good
breeze) he would probably have run away from me. lie proved to be
the clipper ship Contest, from Yokohama (Japan) for New York. Cap-
tured her and anchored in the open sea in 14 fathoms water, and took
from the prize such supplies as we wanted; and all our people having
returned on board about nightfall, it was discovered soon after that
the prize was dragging her anchor, which she did so fast in the fresh-
ened breeze that a boat which was sent to board and fire her pulled
until the officer nearly lost sight of us, and fearing that if he con-
tinued lie might lose sight of us altogether in a rain squall, returned.
Got up steam immediately and weighed anchor and ran down to the
prize and sent a boats crew on board of her, and burned her. Stood
on our course, and at 11 p. rn. got up the propeller and made sail. Lati-
tude 40 48, longitude 1060 49.

Ca8e of the Conte8t.

	Ship under United States colors and register, and no claim for cargo.
Ship and cargo condemned.
	Thursday, November 12.Grayish sky, with sullen.looking weather;
wind from the W. S. W. Having been prevented from reaching the
Gaspar Strait, as I had intended, and supposing that if the enemys
cruiser was near the strait or Batavia (one or the other pretty certain
from the information we have) she would, upon receiving intelligence of
our passing the strait and burning a ship near it, conclude that we were
bound direct for the China Sea, and would hasten in the direction of
Gasper Strait in pursuit, I determined to double upon her and give her
the start of me, holding myself for a few days in the Java Sea, a little
to the eastward of the strait. Latitude 40 19, longitude 108g.
	Friday, November 13.Cloudy, rainy weather morning and afternoon,
with lightning in various directions and some thunder, which was a
novelty to us, it being the first we have heard for some months. Hav-
ing resolved to take the Carimata Passage, bore away for it at daylight.
About 9 a. m. made Shoe Island, distant some 35 miles. At 7 p. in.
anchored in 17 fathoms, mud, distant about 7 miles from the Discovery
West Bank. Latitude 3059~ longitude 107~ 25. I had another row with
my rascals to-day. Having directed some cigars, which we had taken
from the Winged Racer, to be divided among the officers and crew, the
latter threw theirs overboard in a contemptuous manner, whereupon I
arrested the ringleaders for punishment, etc.
	Saturday, November 14.Weather clear. Got underway at 7 a. m.
Wind, light from the southward and westward. Latitude 30 44 32.
longitude 1090 5. Ordered a general court-martial to sit on the cases
of the ringleaders of the mutinous combination of yesterday. Weather
very sultry. Underway all night, the water being rather deep for
anchoring. Soon after daylight a rock was reported on the starboard
bow, in a position where all was clean by the chart. Anchored and sent
a boat to examine it. It proved to be a floating cocoanut tree, its black-
ened roots resembling very much a rock. Got underway again at 8 a. m.
Latitude 30 44 32, longitude l09~ 5.
	Sunday, November 15.Wind very light from the westward, and a
southeasterly set of about half a mile an hour. At 11 mustered the
crew and inspected the ship, and at 7:30 p. m. came to in 20 fathoms
water. Latitude 30 3 42, longitude 1090 27

Page 782

782 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Monday, November 16.Got underway at daylight. Latitude 2~ 41
59 S.,longitudel090l6 E. Approved the sentence of the court in Town-
sends case, sentencing him to be reduced to the gThde of ordinary sea-
man, forfeit three months pay, and be confined in double irons on bread
and water for thirty days. Anchored at 10 p. m. in 25 fathoms water,
East Island bearing about E. S. E. and the peak of Carimata N. N. W.
	Tuesday, November 17.Calm and hot (thermometer 84~ at 10:30
a. in.). Did not get underway at daylight as nsual. Remained at anchor
all day, the wind being light and a current setting about S. S. E,
increasing from half a knot in the forenoon to 3 knots at nightfall.
I saw to-day the first salt-water snake of these seas. It was spotted,
about 3 feet long, and resembled our moccasin. The court-martial
adjourned, having tried three cases. I think the punishments awarded
by the court and the other punishments I have awarded will bring the
disorderly to their senses.
	Wednesday, November 18.Cloudy weather, with squalls of wind and
rain; wind fresh from W. S. W. Got underway at daylight and stood
over to the west end of Soriuton [Serntu], where we anchored at 4
p. in. in 20 fathoms water, with the west end of the island bearing
N. N. W. 4 W., distant 5 or 6 miles. We have thus passed through
the Carimata Passage, nuder sail, in five days in the N. W. monsoon,
which is quite a feat, as vessels have been a month in accomplishing
the same.
	Thursday, November 19.Weather cloudy and squally, with the wind
fresh from the N. W. At 3:30 p. in. boarded the English ship Ava-
lanche (transferred), two or three days from Singapore, with newspa.
pers from England of the 10th of Octoberonly forty days. Gratified
at the general good aspect of the news, and particularly at our victory
at Chickainauga. Reports several ships laid up at Singapore and a gen-
eral stagnation of American trade. This ship came to anchor some 2
miles astern of us, and we sent off the prisoners of the Contest by her,
the master consenting to take them for a chronometer, which I sent
him. He will probably put them on shore at Anjer Point. We first
hoisted the Dutch flag, and I sent Meunier, a German ~ mate,
on board of him, but the master, when told that we were a Dutch ship
of war. said Oh! that wont do; I was on board of her in Liverpool
when she was launched.
	Friday, November 20.Cloudy and squally, with occasional showers
of rain. Lowered and rigged the cutter and sent her to board a couple
of barks, one a Siamese, from Bangkok, and the other a French, from
Manila. The former reported four American ships at Bangkokthree
about to lay up lest they should fall in with us. The latter reported
one American ship at Manila.
	Saturday, November 21.At 9:30 showed English colors to a Norwe-
gian bark. Tarring and rattling rigging, etc. At 3 p. in. got underway
under sail, with the wind from the S. W. Toward nightfall it fell calm;
Souriton [Serutu] bearing E. ~ S., distant about 9 miles.
	Sunday, November 22.At [12] .30 a. in. lowered the propeller and went
ahead under steam. At 9:30 a. in. passed a couple of ships, neither
looking American. Showed English colors to the nearest, which was
returned with the same. Thick, dark, rainy weather. The fact is I
have no coal to chase with, and I can only afford to deviate from my
course when a ship shows decidedly American and we are never deceived
as to appearances. Made and passed within about 4 miles of Direction
Niand at a quarter of 5 p in.
	Monday, November 23This morning, in about 20 20 of north lati-
tude, took a stiff breeze from about N. N. E., which is bad on our coal

Page 783

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	783

as it reduces our speed to about 6 knots. Weather thick and cloudy.
At 8 a. m. n~ade Seraia. Weather continues thick and ugly during the
afternoon and a rough, chopping sea got up. Strii~gling under steam
and sail to weather the north end of Soubi, which we accomplished
about 3:30 p. m. Showed English colors and signaled an English ship
and an English bark, the ship from Foo-Chow for Londonderry. At 6
p. m. let the steam go down and put the ship under sail. Thick weather,
with heavy rain during the night.
	Tuesday, November 24.Thick, cloudy weather, with an almost con-
stant slight sprinkling of rain. No observation of any kind to-day, nor
for latitude for the last three days. Supposed to be in, to-day, latitude
30 40 N., longitude 1090 45 E. Wind very light from about W., with
a heavy sea from the northward. A sight for chronometer in the after-
noon showed us to have had a current of 2 knots an hour to the east-
ward; whether there was northing or southing in it we had no means
of determining. Nearly calm all night, with a heavy sea and cloudy
weather, the moon being visible through a thick veil.
	Wednesday, November 25.Weather cloudy and nearly calm, there
being only a light air from the N. -W. The heavy sea continues, iudi-
cating, probably, a blow to the northward of us. We are likely to have
no observations for position to-day, so that we shall have to guess at
both latitude and longitude. What with the numerous dangers, known
and unknown, in this sea, the frequent and varying currents, and the
obscure weather, the navigator has a nervous time ot it. Noon: Driz-
zling rain and calm. Latitude, by guess, 30 50; longitude, by guess,
1l0~ 30. Eyerything shut out from sightdrifting, we dont know
where. Water, 44 fathoms.
	Thursday, November 26.Partially clear, the sun showing himself
through strata of white clouds. Drifting about in a dead calm, the
current setting us at N. E. at the rate of about 45 to 60 miles per day.
Rolling and tumbling about meanwhile in a sea that must have been
raised by a heavy gale. Got the sun at meridian to-day for the first
time in five days. Latitude 40 36 N., longitude 1110 42 E., or within
50 miles of dangerous ground, toward which the current is setting us.
No anchoring ground; 47 fathoms. Afternoon: The calm still contin-
uing, let go a kedge in 50 fathoms of water (mud) and veered to 150
fathoms. The current, per log, set 2 knots per hour, N. E. by E. So
strong was this sweep of the deep waters that two deep-sea leads
(90 pounds) lashed together would be swept off the bottom. I will let
the ship roll it out here until we get a change of wind and weather.
	Friday, November 27.Early morning cloudy and rainy; wind fresh
from about S., threatening a blowing day. At 7, having started our
kedge, we got underway. At 8:30 the day was clear and the weather
calm, and of course the current again seized us. The ugly sea still
continues most marvelously, for this the fourth day, apparently without
any cause. Noon: The struggle against the current is hopeless in the
death-like calm that prevails, and so we have come to again with the
kedge. In the meantime the weather has again become cloudy, and
the clouds are moving about, but no wind proceeds from them. Lati-
tude 40 51 N., longitude 111~ 54 E. We are to-day 35 miles from
the dangers we are trying to avoid being drifted upon. Water deeper;
50 fathoms.
	Saturday, November 28.Morning dark, rainy, and cahn. Still at our
kedge and the current still sweeping by at the rate of 50 to 60 miles
per day, and the ship still rolling in a heavy swell; and patience, that
good, Christian virtue, still taxed

Page 784

784 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Sunday, November 29.After five days of dead calm we took the mon-
soon this morning at daylight, setting in lightly, and at 9 a. in. we got
underway and stood to the northward and westward. The change of
wind, or rather the coming of this wind, has produced an agreeable
change in the weather, it having become clear and the stifling, still,
murky atmosphere of the calms becoming more elastic and fit for
human use. The current continued to the last. There can be no ques-
tion, I think, that there is a constant rotatory current in the China Sea,
running to the S. W. on the shores of Cochin China and to the N. E.
on the coasts of Borneo and Palawan during the N. E. monsoon, and
vice versa. At 11 mustered. the crew and caused the sentences of
the late court-martial to be read. Latitude 50 1 30 N., longitude
1110 47 E.
	Monday, November 30.Morning cloudy, with the wind from about
N. E. by N., brightening into a gray day toward noon, and the monsoon
freshening as we proceed northward. Latitude 6~ 14 N., longitude
1100 31 E. We have lost the northeasterly current and have probably
got into a southwesterly one. In the afternoon th~ weather became
ugly, with heavy squalls of wind and rain, which continued through
the night. Single reefed the topsails and took the bonnets off the
trysails.
	Tuesday, December 1.A black day, the weather being thick and
rainy, with heavy squalls, and the sun nowhere visible. A heavy sea
on, which seems to be the normal condition of this small sheet of water.
The monsoons here seem to be gales, and when the monsoons cease,
preparatory.to a change, we have the typhoons and calms. There is
ahnost an urinterrupted calm near the equator, with the unceasing
cloud ring hanging overhead. The shoals are unsurveyed, and about
the only information we get concerning them, besides a rough calcula-
tion as to their position and extent, is about as follows:
	Such a vessel sounded in 16 fathoms, but as such another got 5~, and saw some
bright looking spots where there was supposed to be less, this bank might be dan-
gerous to large ships.

	And those banks lie in the fairway of commerce to China and Japan.
A small steamer would sound every square yard of almost any of these
banks in a couple of days. More trouble with Riley, the fireman. Shall
try him, to set him and the fire department right about the imperium
in imperio. Got a sight of the sun for chronometer at 11 a. in., but a
dense rain squall obscured him soon after and we got no latitude. Sup-
posed latitude 70 30 N., supposed longitude 1080 42 E. It blew very
hard in squalls in the afternoon and the weather became rainy and very
thick. Close reefed, etc.
	Wednesday, December 2.Weather as clear as it usually is in the
height of a trade wind; passing clouds and hazysatmosphere. Wind
blowing half a gale; water light green; short, chopping sea. Got posi-
tion to-day. Latitude 80 30 36 N., longitude 107~ 15 E. Shall prob-
ably just fetch our island, but too late to do anything with it but drift
by it to-night in the strong S. W. current, in spite of all exertions to
the contrary. Current for the last two days about 2 knots S. W. A sail
passed ahead of us about noon, running off before thewind. No.chasing
to leeward in this wind and current. At 1 p. m. made the island of
(Jondore, ran to the northward of the White Rock and along the west-
ern side of the island, and after dark fortunately anchored under the
lee of an island that lies to the northward of the harbor in 18 fathoms
water. Here it was smooths and it was pleasant to listen to the whi

Page 785

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	785

tling of the monsoon, which had handled us so roughly for the past two
days. Current running 2 knots per hour to the S. W. Observed a
light on shore.
	Thursday, December 3.Weather as usual; stiff monsoon blowing in
squalls. At daylight we discovered a small vessel at anchor near the
head of the harbor, with French colors and awnings and other indica-
tion~ of her being a vessel of war, though rigged junk fashion. Sent
a boat in to examine the water. Boat returned at 1 p. m. with the com-
mander of the vessel, a French vessel of war, and I was quite surprised
to learn that we had arrived in civilized waters and that the island of
Condore was in the possession of the French. There was a small garri-
son of fifty or sixty troops at the village on the east side. There had
been a recent revolt of the natives, the French officer said, and that for
this reason there were few vegetables or fruits to be had, and most of
the natives had betaken themselves to the inountains. Got nude way
and ran into the harbor, the Frenchman politely showing me the ~ray,
and anchored in 9 fathoms. Frequent heavy squalls rushing down the
gorges of the mountains. Got ~ spring out so as to present our port
broadside to any enemy that might be disposed to violate neutrality,
and, to save coal, permitted all the fires to go out. A couple of ships
running betore the wind passed in sight during the day, the ships pru-
dently running a little out of the track to sight the island in this uncer-
tain sea.
	Friday, December 4.The harbor is picturesque, with mountains
rising abruptly from the water to the height of 1,800 feet, clothed with
dense verdure from waters edge to top, many of the trees being of
large size. The soil i~ very rich, but there is little cultivable land, the
mountain sides being too steep. The French have constructed two or
three huts on the northern shore and a couple of rude jetties, or land-
ing places, of loose stone. Landed on one of these to get sights for
the chronometers. Found a Frenchman overseeing three or four Chi-
nese slaves chopping wood and thatching a hut. The French make
slaves both here and on the mainland of prisoners of war. Conscien-
tious Frenchman, when other peoples slaves are in question! The
island is under the government of an enseigne de vaissean. The com-
mandant of the junk is a midshipman, so that we have gotten among
high dignitaries. Landed at noon at an inviting little sand beach on
the south shore to get latitude80 39 10. Found the ruined hut ot
a Frenchman, with his grave close by and his name carved on the bark
of a tree on the beach. A picturesque burial spot, amid eternal shades,
with the lullaby of the ocean. Cleaning, calking, and getting ready
for painting ship.
	Saturday, December 5.Amused this morning watching some sedate
old baboons sitting on the sand beach opposite and apparently observ-
ing the ship very attentively. Large numbers of these caricatures of
humanity inhabit these islands. Yesterday, when a boat landed, large
numbers of young were seen gamboling about, but one of the old ones
having called out to the young ones, they soon disappeared iu the
thick wood. Returned the visit of the Frenchman. He is on board. a
miserable country craft, of about 40 tons burden. Sent a boat to the
village on the east side to call on the enseigne gouverneur and see if we
could get some fruit and vegetables. Boat returned at nightfall. The
village is a mere military post, the native inhabitants, except a few pris-
oners or slaves, having fled to the mountains, and no supplies were to be
had. The governors residence is a thatched hut, as are all the other
houses, with no industry or taste displayed in their structure. A. few
	N W RYOI.4 II	~

Page 786

786 OPERATIONS 01? THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

patches of cultivation were visible, rice, fruit, and cotton, the latter look-
ing rather unpromising. The great destroyers of their rice were the
monkeys. There are several varieties of fine, larg~ pigeons here, and in
abundance. They are beautiful in feather, and Tht. A common variety
has a green back and golden tail. This must be a paradise fbr inon-
keys, so abundant is their food in the forests, almost every tree bearing
a fruit or nut of some sort. These Freiich officers had heard and
believed that we sunk or burned every ship we took, with all on board,
and received the paymaster rather coolly at first, but became quite cor-
dial when assured we were Chri.~tians and did not commit this xvhole-
sale murder. A stea~mer is expected from Singapore. Calm and cloudy
all day. Sent some of the men on shore to bathe.
	Sunday, December 6.Cloudy, with the breeze from the N. W. The
commandant sent me a present of some beef and a few oranges and
1im~. Mustered the crew, and read the articles of war and the finding
an entence of the last court-martial. Permitted some of the men to
go on shore.
	Monday, December 7.Cloudy, with the wind light from the north-
war(1 and eastward. Toward noon we had the novelty of a shower of
rain. Painting ship, cleaning copper, etc. The commandant of the
island, Mr. Bizot, visited me to-day. He is an agreeable and intelli-
gent young man.of 24 or 25 years of age, and appeared very friendly
and expressed sympathy for our cause. His position is a flattering one
for a nian of his age and rank, and he seems to have ciltere(l upon his
duties with pride and zeal. He brought me a chart of the islands, sur-
veyed last year. The French have been in possession two years and a
half. He spoke of my having hoisted the English flag npon first
anchoring, and seemed surprised that we had not beard of the posses-
sion of the island by the French, which he said had been notified to all
powers. I pleasantly told him th~t I had had some notion of taking
possession of it myself; but that I had found the~French ahead of me.
He brought down for mne the welcome present of a pig and some little
fruit, and told me he had a potato patch on shore which he would slmare
with me. Fresh provisions of all kimids are so scarce here that I fear
my generous friend has been robbing himself. He told inc that he had
140 for~ats (slave prisoners) at the village, whom he meant to put to
good use in constructing store and dwelling houses, etc., upon which I
rallied him upon his system of slavery away off here in Cochin China,
and told him he was worse than we,, since the Cochin Chinese were
quasi white people, whereas we enslaved only the African. Oh! said
he,~o~r slavery is not universal; we only emislave the bad subjects of
society, etc. The hunters bronght on board to-day an East India bat,
or vampire, measuring 2 feet 10 inches from tip to tip of wing. Its head
resembled that of a doo- or wolf more than any other animal, its teeth
being very sharp and strong. Amnong the curiosities of the island is a
locust that has a whistle almost as loud as that o~f a railroad.
	Tuesday, December 8.A beautiful, transparent morning, the first we
have seen in these seas, and we were reminded strongly of the West
Indies, in consequence, the abrupt mountain scemmery and rich tropical
vegetation helping the illusion. The midshipman commandant of the
junk came on board, and brought mime a couple of fowls. Poor fellow,
he seemed quite unwell, and told me that he had been suffering from
a disordered stomach. About 2:30 p. m. a bark-rigged steamer of war
passed by the gap at the head of the harbor. Sent somne men in the
afternoon to haul a seine loaned us by the junk. We have a batch
of French papers down to the end of September. We see nothing i

Page 787

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	787

them of any more Confederate cruisers being fitted out. We feel almost
as if we had been abandoned by our Government i~i this matter. What
can the Secretary of the Navy be about? The hunters brought ou
board a lizard measuring 3 feet another was killed a fexv days after
measuring 5 feet 10 inches, and to-day they killed another bat (day-
bat) measuring more than 3 feet from tip to tip of wing. They grow
to 6 feet, an(l the natives believe iu the old story of the vampire. The
apes here are very large, and quite fierce. They will not ruu from you,
but come around you, and grin and chatter at you. An officer shot
one and he died like a human being, throwing his hands over his wound
and uttering plaintive cries. This monkey was afterwards buried in
the sand by his comrades, though the interment was not quite complete
when the operators were interrupted. This is the reason why nobody
ever sees a dead monkey any more, as the Singhalese proverb says,
than a white crow or a straight cocoanut tree. A curious vegetable prod-
uct was brought on board to-day, it being to all appearances a finely
made Havana cigar. The fiber.is woody, covered with a smooth bark, of
the color of dark tobacco. It conies from the tree perfect in shape, and
is not a seed pod or fruit. Omie is at a loss to conceive its use or fiinc.
tions. The illusion caused by its appearance is perfect. We had no
success with the seine, the fish here being all jumpers, and jumping
out of the net.
	Wednesday, December 9.Morning clear, with fleecy clouds hanging
over the tops of the mountain and rolling down its sides. Wind light
from the S. E. We have had an almost entire cessation of the monsoon
for three or~four days. We have finished painting outside and have
commenced inside to-day. The French papers are filled with discus-
siovts on the Polish question, the result of which seenis to be that the
Three Powers have made a flat backdown, upon Russia showing a little
firmness, and poor Poland has been left to work out her own independ-
ence or be destroyed. The humiliation of England is l)ainfuh to witness.
The English Government in its pride and self-conceit fimcied that it
was only necessary for it to open its wise mouth to insure all the
nations of the earth receiving its oracles with (hue gratitu(le and sub-
mission, and to its great surprise it finds itself rudely snubbed and
defied. And the reply of poor old Palmerston through his semni-Yankee
mouthpiece, the little abolitionist Russell, is that England cant afford
to go to war for the Poles. In other words, it would cost her too much
money amid too many self-denials to be honorable and generous. Poor
old John Bull, whom his immense money bags have made so timorous,
should either have said nothing or have been muanly enough to say and,
if need be, do more. If England, being a party to the treaty of 1815,
deems that treaty to have been violated by Russia at the expense of a
gnlJ ant and long-suffering people, for whose protection it was intended,
it was her solemn duty to see the treaty enforced. She owed it as well
to her own self-respect as to the Poles. But it was pusillanimous to
protest against the infraction of the treaty, and when told to mind her
own business, as she was in fact told by Russia, to slink away from the
controversy like a whipped dog kicked out of better commipany. The
excessive heat and moisture of the climate here is very enervating.
We begin to feel its effects already. It weighs upon us like a vapor
bath, and we feel indisposed to take the least exercise; a walk on shore
of half a mile or so quite overcomes ns. I have been n~ucli pleased at
the withdrawal of Mr. Mason from London. As properly said by our
Secretary of State in his dispatch, it was incompatible, both with
our interests and our honor, that he should remain longer. Receive~

Page 788

788 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

a note from the commandan1~ to-day with a present of some eggs.
His note expressed warm sympathy in the no~zde cause which we
defend.
	Thursday, December 10.Morning cloudy, clearing toward 10 a. in.
Permitted a watch of the crew to go on shore to-day. At about 2:30
p. in. a French steamer passed the gap, going to the southward. After-
wards informed by the commandant that it was the mail steamer from
Saigon for Singapore. The Saigon people are expecting us there.
	Friday, December 11.This morning we had quite a heavy shower
of rain frcm the S. E., which spoiled some of our newly put on paint.
The weather cleared toward 10 a. m. In the afternoon the comman-
dant and surgeon came on board, bringing us a bullock and some veo-e~
tables. He had received no later news by the steamer from Saigon
than we had previously received. A little rain at night. Took addi-
tional sights for chronometers.
	ASaturday, December 12.This morning we have the monsoon fresh
from about E. N. E., with the mountain top (1,800 feet) covered, as
usual, with a wreath of cloud. At 9 a. m. a ship passed the mouth of
the harbor, at about 8 miles distant, steering to tl~te southward. She
was at first reported as a steamer, and I watched her as she should
pass out from behind the island which hid her from view with some
anxiety, as we were in quite an unprepared state to meet an enemy,
with no fires lighted, and all the gun gear unrove, and undergoing the
process of painting. It is true we were in a neutral port, but I am
by no means certain that the Yankees would respect Pub Condore.
Heavy squalls during the night from the S. E.; dragged our anchor
carelessly during the night about 100 yards.
	Sunday, December 13.Cloudy, with the wind from E. S. E., hauling
to N. E. during the day. Mustered the crew and inspected the ship.
The crew dined off the commandants bullock to-day, being their first
meal of fresh meat since leaving Simons Town, three months (nearly)
ago; and yet we have no one on the sick list. Causes, good water,
temperance, strict government, and, as a consequence, a reasonable
degree of contentment, and moderate and constant employment. The
crew has had several runs on shore, too, without the possibility of get-
ting drunk and otherwise debauching themselves. A present of cocoa-
nuts from the commandant this morning. This young Frenchman is
very attentive to us. Breeze very fresh again in squalls from the S. E.
during the night. Let go a second anchor at nightfall.
	Monday, December 14.Morning bright and clear, clouding, with a
sprinkle of rain, at 10 a. in. To-day we applied the l)rinciple of the
C9fferdamn to the replacement of the copper around our delivery or blow-
pipe, some 3 feet below the water. The operation proved quite simple,
and easy of accomplishment. Qetting ready for sea. The news of our
whereabouts probably reached Singapore on the evening of Saturday,
and it is only two days from Singapore here for a fast steamer; and
so while the enemy, should there be one at Singapore, is coming hither-
ward, we must be going thitherward to seek coal and provisions.
	Tuesday, December 15.Morning cloudy, clearing partially toward
noon. At daylight got underway under sail and stood out of the har-
bor, lighting and banking the fires. On account of our proximity to
the shore and the very light breeze we have barely room to pass the
pointnot more than a ships length to sparein case we had been
obliged to let go an anchor. I felt quite nervous for a few minutes, but
I held on, and we caught a light breeze that soon sent us ahead out
Of danger. Standing nuder topsails to the 5.5. E, Pub Condore bear

Page 789

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATfl.	789

ing about N. at noon, with the observed latitude 80 24 N., longitude
1060 48 E. Well, we are on the seas oiice more, with our head turned
westward, or homeward. Shall we ever reach tkat dear home, which
we left nearly three years ago, and which we have yearned after so
frequently since~ Will it be battle, or shipwreck, or both, or neither~
And when we reach the North Atlantic, will it still be war, or peace~
When will the demonlike passions of the North be stilled ~ These are
solemn and interesting questions for us, and an all-wise Providence has
kindly hidden the answers behind the curtain of fate. A lengthened
cruise would not be politic in these warm seas. The homeward trade
of the enemy is now quite small, reduced, probably, to twenty or thirty
ships per year, and these may easily evade us by taking the different
passages to the Indian Ocean, of which there are so many and so widely
separated. The foreign coasting trade (as between one port in China
and another, and the trade to and from Calcutta, and to and from
Anstralia), besides facilities for escape, are almost beyond our reach;
at least, we could only ransom the ship, the cargoes being all neutral
that is to say, such of them as get cargoes, now not many. And then
there is no cruising or chasing to be done here, successfully, or with
safety to oneself without plenty of coal, and we can only rely upon
coaling once in three monthsat some English port. At the other
ports there would probably be combinations made against us, through
the influence of the Yankee consuls. So I will try my luck around the
Cape of Good Hope once more, thence to the coast of Brazil, and thence
perhaps to Barbados for coal, and thence ~ If the war be not
ended, my ship will need to go into dock to have much of her copper
replaced, n~w nearly destroyed by such constant cruising, and to have
her boilers overhauled and repaired, and this can only be properly done
in Europe. Our young officers, who had had so agreeable a change
from the cramped ship to the shores and fruits of Condore, with their
guns and their books, had become so attached to the island that they
left it with some regret. Afternoon cloudy and calm, with a heavy sea,
as usual.
	Wednesday, December 1G.Cloudy and clear. Descried a sail ahead
at 8:30 a. in., which, proving to be a brig bound to the northward and
eastward, and of course at this season of the year from either the Gulf
of Siam or Singapore, and therefore by scarcely a possibility an Ameri-
can, did not chase. She (lid not look Yankee, either. Latitude 70 18
N., longitude 1070 27 E. Current S. W., about half a knot per hour.
Liberated Hyer and Townsend from confinement, their term awarded
by the court having expired.
	Thursday, December 17.Dark, cloudy day; weather ugly looking, as
threatening a gale; wind fresh from N. W. to N. N. W. Got a sight
for time about 10 a. in.; no observation for latitude. Latitude, D. lit,
60 11 N.; longitude, D. It, 106~ 12 ~ E. Barmometer 29.76. Alter.
noon: Another sight for time, which gave me position. About 4 p. in.
a steamer passed ahead of us steering to the northward. She showed
French colors; no doubt the mail steamer which left Condore on the
10th, returning. Showed her our colors in reply. Weather cleared
toward nightfall. Bore up under topsails.
	Friday, December 18.~Auother ugly, cloudy day, with rain, and a
fresh breeze from N. N. E. to N. We were fortunate to catch a glimpse
of the sun just at 12 oclock, and so secured the latitude, position being
of great importance in these narrow and dangerous seas, with their
currents. Current S. W., about 1 knot per hour. Latitude 40/ 48 N.,
longitude 105~ 10. Heavy rain in the afternoon, and half a gale of
wind, with a rough sea, during the night. Hove to at midnight

Page 790

OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Saturday, December 19.Weather still cloudy and boisterous, with
dense cloud banks in various directions; sun showing himself occasion-
ally. At 10:45 a. m. made the island of Aor, and ~t 4 p. in. came to in
the bay on the southeast part of the island, in 20 fathoms, the little
island nearly shut in behind the northern end of the bay bearing about
N. W. and the east end of the island bearing E. S. E. The island, with
its lofty hills, clothed with trees to the summit, and all looking green
and rich, its little bays, with their sand beaches and groves of cocoanut
trees, with an occasional hut, is very picturesque. No European nation
lays claim to it. Some natives idling about their huts and gazing at us.
	Sunday, December 20.To-day being Sunday, and the weather beimig
still thick and blowing, I have resolved to remain until to-morrow before
making the run for Singapore. Weather improved this morning, how-
ever, and the barometer going up. Several islands visible that were
hid from us yesterday. Pub Aor looking beautiful and picturesque.
Some of the natives on board with their scant stores of fowls, eggs,
and cocoanuts. They are larger than the natives of Condore, and stout
and well developed, but with countenances not very prepossessing.
The governor, a rough-looking, middle-aged fellow, above the common
height, pulled out some greasy papers, the recommendations of former
visitors, and desired that I also would give him one, which I declined,
as 1 knew nothing about him. Their canoes are light and graceful, and
occasionally they present quite a picture, with their gayly dressed or
halfdressed occupants. We heard their tom-toms and banjoes last
night, as evening set in, but a music munch sweeter to our ears was a
chorus from same frogs, with notes somewhat finer than their relatives
on our side of time earth. These islanders are iiothiin g more than
marine nomads, that lead an idle, vagabond life, intermixed with a
good deal of roguery. They have fine physique, as might be supposed
from their open-air mode of life, in which they have l)lenty of healthful
exercise without being overworked, as mother natui3e feeds theni spon-
taneously, and they require little more clothing than they brought into
the world with them. In the afternoon some of the officers visited the
shore, and were hospitably received. There were from 90 to 100
nativesmen, women, and childrenvisible, and tlmere probably are as
many more on the other side of the island, as they have a S. W. mon-
soon village there. They seemed to have plenty of fowls, amid they are
very expert fishermen. The men were gambling, such a thing as labor
being out of the question. The island seems originally to have been a
solid mass of rock, the rocky walls of the mountain peeping out now in
many places from the midst of the dense forest, and gradually, as time
and the elements disintegrated portions of it, plants and trees took
root, until the island became what it is now, a mass of luxuriant vege-
tation. There were some fine, large l)oats carefully hauled up on the
beach, quite large enough for piratical purposes, for which they were
probably intended; and some brass swivels were lying near the chief
man~s door. The cocoanut tree has climbed the mountain side and
waves its feathery foliage from the crests of the ridges. It is food,
cordage, and light to the natives. Several delightful little valleys pre-
sented themselves, up which, and on the adjacent steeps of the moun-
tains, were thatched huts; Probably to the mere animal part of our
nature the life that these people lead is happier than any other
wants few and easily supplied, labor not too pressing, and the simple
tastes satisfied with such pleasures as they fiimd. Rain, rain, 1mm thme
afternoon. Most of the moisture is deposited on the mommntain top and
the clouds sweep over it. And now for Singapore, God willing

Page 791

	OPERATiONS OF TIlE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	791

	Monday, December 21.At 3:30 a. m. we got underway under steam
and sail, and steered S. by E. 32~ miles, S. 18 miles, and S. by W. 14
miles, and the weather setting in very thick, witk heavy rain obscur-
ing all things, I was obliged to come [to], in 10~ fathoms with the north
point of Bintang Island bearing and within 12 miles by computa-
tion of the Pedra Branca light-house. We have thus to war against the
weather as well as our enemies. Soon after daylight we made a
ship-rigged steamer on our port bow, bound also for Singapore. She
anchored also, near us, astern. It clearing a little at noon, we got hold
of the marks and got underway, and taking a Malay pilot anchored
off Singapore at 5:30 p. m.
	Tuesday, December 22. Weather cloudy. At 9:30 a. in. the pilot
came on board and we ran up into New Harbor, alongside of the coaling
depot, and commenced coaling. Singapore is qnite a large town, with
an air of thrift and prosperity; a large nnmber of ships in the harbor.
The country is beautiful and green, with an abundance of fine fruit, etc.
The country around highly improved with tasteful houses and well laid
out grounds. The English residents call it the Madeira of the East, in
allnsion to its healthfulness. Some twenty-two American merchant
ships here, most of them laid up. Wyominq was here twenty days ago,
and left for IRhio Strait, where she remained for some days. Finished
coaling last night, the operation having occnpied no more thami ten
hours. Receiving provisions.
	Wednesday, December 23.Weather variable, with occasional showers
of rain. Raining heavily in the afternoon. Last night seven of my
vagabonds ran away; two of them were apprehended and brought
back this morning. Visited the city, and was astonished at its amount
of population and business. There are from 80,000 to 100,000 Chinese
on Singapore Island, nearly all of them iii the city; from 12,000 to
15,000 Malays, and about 1,500 Europeans. Singapore being a free
port, it is a great eutrepot of trade. Great quantities of Easterim pro-
doce reaches it from all quarters, whence it is shipped to Europe. The
business is ahnost exclusively in the hands of the Chinese, who are
also the artisans and laborers of the place. The streets are thronged
with foot passengers and vehicles, among which are l)romiLmellt the ox,
or rather the buffalo cart, and the hacks for hire, of which latter there
are 900 licensed. The canal is filled with country boats, of excellent
model, and the warehouses are crammed with goods. Money seems
to be abundant and things dear. They are just finishing a tasteful
Gothic church, with a tall spire, which is a notable landmark as you
approach the town, and are coumpleting officers quarters, etc., on a hill
which commands the town. Barracks for three or [four] regiments lie
unoccupied a couple of miles outside the city, and a large court-house
and town hall adorn one of the squares. The moving multitude in the
streets comprises every variety of the human race, every shade of
color, and every variety of dress, anmong which are l)roln]Iment the gay
tartans and fancy jackets of the Mohammedan, Hindu, etc. Almost
all the artisans and laborers were naked, except a cloth or a pair
of short trousers tucked about the waist. The finest dressed part
of the population was decidedly the jet blacks, with their white flowing
mantles and spotless turbans. The upper class of Chinese merchants
are exceedingly polite, and seem intelligent. I visited the establish-
ment of Whanrpoa &#38; Co. XV hampoa was above the middle size, stout,
and with a large~ well-developed head. I was told that his profits some
years amounted to 40,000 or 50,000. He was sittin ~ in a small,
dingy, ill-lighted little office on the ground floor, and had before him 

Page 792

792 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

Chinese calculating machine, over the numerous small balls of which,
strung on wires, he was running his hands for amusement, as a gam-
bler will sometimes do with his checks. At the suggestion of the
gentleman who was with me, I requested him to multiply four places
of figures by three placesnaming the figuresand the operation
was done about as rapidly as I could xvrite down the result. Their
shaved heads and long queues, sometimes nearly touching the ground,
are curious features of their personal appearance. The workshops
all front upon the streets, and these busy, half-naked creatures niay be
seen working away as industriously as so many beavers all day long,
seeming never to tire of their ceaseless toil. I saw but one female iii
the street, and she of the lower class, amid all this busy population.
Dined in the country with Mr. Beaver. The ride out was over good
roads or avenues flanked by large forest and ornamental trees, among
which was the tall, slender, graceful palm of the betel nut. The botani-
cal gardens are on an elevation commanding a fine view of the town
and the sea, and are laid out with taste, ornamented with flowering
trees and shrubs and flowers. Hither a band of music comes to play
several times a week, when the townspeople ride out to enjoy the
scene. A few miles beyond the town the whole island is a jungle, in
which abounds the ferocious Bengal tiger. It is said that one man and
a half per day is the average destruction of human life by these animals.
Visited opinm-preparation shop. It pays an enormous license. All
this beauty fails to reconcile the European ladies to the country, I was
told. The eternal sameness of summer and heat and moisture weigh
upon and oppress them, and their husbands being away all day on
business, they wilt and pine for their European homes. The life seems
agreeable enough to the men. The governor of the Straits Settle-
mentis a colonel,

Ca8e of the Texan Star.

	Thursday, December 24.Cloudy. Five more deserters last night.
We brought out with us four volunteers. The Quang lung got nnder-
way at 8:30 a. in., and we followed her and steered for the Strait of
Malacca, several sail in sight. Malay pilot on board. Passed Quang
lung very rapidly. At about 1 p. m. we fired a gun and hove to an
American-lookingbark, under English colors, with the name Martabctn *
of Maulmain, on her stern. Sent a boat on board, and the officer report-
ing that she was an American-built ship, with English register, and that
the master refused to come on board, 1 went on board myself to examine
the case. There being no bill of sale, the transaction being recent, the
master and mate, etc., being Americans, I had no doubt that the transfer
was fraudulent and captured and burned her. The cargo had no paper
on board connected with it, except the ordinary bill of lading. It con-
sisted of rice, and was shipped in Maulinain by a Mr. Cohen, and con-
signed to his order at Singapore, whither the ship was bound. Of course
the cargo follows the fate of the ship under such circumstances. Upon
examination of the master (Pike), nuder oath, he admitted that the
transfer was a sham, and made to protect the ship from capture. At
11:30 p. in. came to anchor about 4 miles (listant from Malacca, bear-
ing N., in 15 fathoms water, for the purpose of landing our prisoners.
	Friday, December 25.Cloudy, and rain, rain, rain. At daylight sent
the prisoners of the Texan Star on shore, with a note to the comman-
dant. Malacca is a pretty little village, or at least the sea front, viewed

* Texan Star

Page 793

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	793

from our anchorage, with a picturesque hill in the rear, on which is
situated the fort aud light-house. The flagstaff was decorated with
flags and signals in honor of the dayChristmas~ A couple of boats
with some English officers and citizens ran off and visited us for a few
minutes while we were getting our anchor. Grot nnderway at 9:30,
nnder steam, and 11:20 boarded an English bark, from Singapore for
Madras. At nightfall anchored near Parcelar Hill [Point], in 25
fathoms water.
	Saturday, December 2G.Weather clear, with passing clouds. At
6 a. m. got nnderway, and stood out for the light-ship, and soon made a
couple of Ainerican-lookingships ahead, at anchor. Steamed up to the
first, which refused to show colors. Sent a boat on board, when she
proved to be the American ship Sonora, from Singapore. Captured
her. Steamed then to th&#38; second, which in like manner refused to
show colors. Upon sending ~i boat on board she proved to be the
American ship Highlander, also from Singapore. Captured her. Both
of these ships were very large, being over 1,000 tons each. They were
both in ballast, bound to Aycaab [Akyab?] for rice. At 10 a. in., hav-
ing sent off the crews of the two prizes in their own boats at their own
election, fired the ships and steamed out, and passed the light-ship at
about 11 a. m. and discharged the pilot.

Case of the Sonora.

	Ship in ballast, and under the enemy~5 flag and register. Condemned.

Case of the Highlander.

	Ship in b~dlast, and under the enemys flag and register. Con-
demned.
	At 4 p. m. overhauled and sent a boat on board the transferred Bre-
men ship Ottone. The transfer of this ship was made in May last, at
the port of Bremen. All the officers and crew were Dutch, and the
papers were regular. Permitted her to proceed on her voyage (to
Rangoon), as I had no doubt that the change of property was bona fide.
Weather thick and rainy all night. The seasons seem to have changed
here; for the last few days, instead of the clear weather and easterly
wind which the N. E. monsoon is supposed to bring, we have rain, rain,
rain, with southwesterly and northwesterly winds.
	Sunday, December 27.Weather thick and rainy. Soon after day-
light made the Sambilangs, bearing about N. E., and an hour after-
wards the Pub Jarra [Jarrali], about N. W. by N. The Pub Jarra
[Jarral?] rises like the dome of a giant cathedral abruptly from the
sea. Did not muster on account of the bad weather. Latitude 40 8,
longitude 1000 11 30. In the afternoon heavy rain, and during the
night light airs from the north.
	Monday, December 28.Rain from heavy clouds; wind shifting from
northward and eastward to southward and westward and vice versa;
patience-trying weather. No observation for latitude for two days.
Latitude, supposed, 40 46, longitude, supposed, 990 40. Strong tide
rips at noon. Water 35 fathoms. Sighted the Bremen ship we boarded
day before yesterday. A junk in sight.
	Tuesday, December 29.~Thick weather, with uninterrupted rain, from
8 a. m. No observation of any kind. Supposed latitude 50 29 N.,
supposed longitude 98~ 16 E. We entered the Strait of Malacca just
a week ago, and it has rained every day sincea part of the time
heavily. At 2 p. m. made the land toward the north end of Sumatra.
Standing along the coast to the westward in the afternoon. Rain all
night

Page 794

794 OPERATIONS OF THt ~RtTIStRSCONPEDERAT]3i.

	Wednesday, December 30.Morning cloudy, with rain, clearing toward
noon, so as to enable us to get latitudethe first time for four days.
At 9 a. m. made the coast of Sumatra again. 1~atitude 50 39, Ion gi-
tude 960 40. Standing along the land; drift cane and weed. We
have the monsoon to-day from about E. Boarded an English ship from
Liverpool for Singapore.
	Thursday, December 31.Weather fine, with the monsoon fresh from
about E. At daylight made the Pub Rondo and Pub Way. At noou
we are just taking leave of the north end of Sumatra, the highland
gradually disappearing in the distance and we have again entered the
Indian Ocean, this time the North Indian. The sumi ary court-martial
was dissolved yesterday; have sentenced three prisoners. I iiever
touch a port but the rascals give me trouble. The weather clouded and
the wind shifted suddenly to the southward and westward in the
afternoon, with rain. Wind light during the night.
	Friday, January 1, 1861.Weather cloudy and rainy, with the wind
fresh from the W. S. W., and some sea on. Latitude G0 23 18, lon gi-
tude 930 35 30. Alas! another year of war and toil and privation
has passed over me, leaving its tr ces behind. I-Ialf a gale during
the night, with thick, squally weather and rain and lightning. Wind
W. S. W. Single reefed and took bonnets ofL
	Saturday, January 2.Weather moderated; wind light from W.
Latitude 50 39 27, boiigitude 930 8.
	Sunday, January 3.Weather fine and settled, with the wind light
but very steady from the westward, amid trade clouds passing; and
this in latitude 50 30, and in the height of the N. E. monsoon. Lati-
tude 50 299 N., longitude 920 33 E. Mustered the crew and read
the articles of war and the sentences of the court and the new ratings.
The jail is thus fairly delivered once more. At 10 p. m. a steamer
passed within 3 or 4 miles of us, steering to the westward.
	Monday, January 4.Cloudy weather, with heavy rains. At 7: 30
wore in chase of a ship, and at 8: 30, making her out to be probably
English, the wind being light and the ship a great way off, wore round
on our course again. No observation to-day. Latitude, 1). II., 60 5 N.;
longitude 910 40 E. For the last three days we have had a south-
westerly current of about a knot an hour. Exchanged signals in the
afternoon with an English ship from Singapore, bound to Jiddab, on
the Red Sea, the nearest seaport to Mecca, with a large number of
pilgrims on board.
	Tuesday, January 5.Weather clear, with an occasional passing
cloud and a spitting of rain. Latitude 6~ 29 15, longitude 900 37,
having experienced a northwesterly current. In the afternoon
exchanged colors (United States) with a French ship steering for the
Bay of Bengal.
	Wednesday, January 6.Morning fine, clouding at noon. Wind
light from the southward and eastward. Current of about a knot an
hour, to the northward and westward. Latitude 60 7 N., longitude
880 40 15 E.
	Thursday, January 7.Clear and cloudy; weather oppressive. Wind
light from the S. E., hauling to E. N. E. Current 1 knot per hour, N. W.
Latitude 50 39 32 N., longitude 870 22 B.
	Friday, [January 8].Cloudy, with light rain and black clouds, alter-
nately rising and dispersing; the sun visible at intervals. Latitude
50 22 22 N., longitude SilO 53 E. Wind about E. to E. by N. At 4
p.	m. sent a boat on board of an English bark from the Mauritius for
the Bay of Bengal, with passengers. Reported ourselves as U. S. S

Page 795

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	795

Dacotah, in search of the Alabama. The master said: it wont do;
the Alabama is a bigger ship than you, and they say she is iron plated
besjdes. The last news he had of the Alabama ~ that she was in
Simons Bay. It rained heavily and almost continually during the
night.
	Saturday, January 9.Cloudy, and in the early morning rainy;
weather breaking, though not becoming clear, toward noon. The sun
showed himself reluctantly at noon through a dense cloud veil. Lati-
tude 50 5 N., longitude 820 9. In the thick weather of the night we
made a sailabout 8 p. m.but lost sight of her again in a few minutes.
Wind fresh from about N. N. E., and a current running to the westward
of about 2 knots per hour.
	Sunday, January 10.Weather comparatively clear; wind became
light toward noon from about N. byE. to N. N.E. Latitude 5014 32,
longitude 790 50. Calm all the afteruoou and most of the night,
with a falling barometer. Descried two sail in the distance toward
nightfall.
	Monday, January 11.A squall of wind and heavy rain, which con-
tinued several hours, broke over us about 3:30 a. in., and a whole top-
sail gale set in from about N. N. E., with passing white clouds. At
meridian took in the single reefs. Latitude 50 49 29, longitude
780 25 45. The gale continued all day, moderating after nightfall.
	Tuesday, January 12.Weather fine, with the wind becoming light
from the N. E.; 50 miles westerly current. Latitude 70 26, longitude
760 2.
	Wednesday, January 13.Weather fine and a calm of twenty-four
hours, having made in this time but 8 miles. A bark, with foreign
aspect, on the port beam, distant some 14 miles. Latitude 70 33 413
N., longitude 760 1 E. No appreciable current to-day; a little south-
erly set.
	Thursday, January 14.Another calm day, during which we drifted
some 20 miles to the N. N. E. Latitude 70 57 52, longitude 76 9 45.
In the afternoon hauled up for a ship running (lowil toward us. At
2:30 p. m. showed her the United States colors, when she responded
with the same. Fired a gun and hove her to. Upon boarding her she
proved to be the Emma Jane, of Bath, Me., from Bombay for Amherst,
in ballast. Captured her and sent the first lientemmant on board to
remove such articles of provisions, etc., as we required. This being
done, and the prisoners removed on .board, at 8:30 p. in. fired her.
Calm all nightjust breeze enough to draw us off a few miles from the
prize. An English bark passed ns.
	Friday, January 15.Weather cloudy, with a shower of rain. Calm
all the twenty-four hours, not having made 5 miles through the water,
though we have been drifted by the current about 25 miles t6 the north-
ward. Latitude 8~ 25 28, longitude 76~ 8.
	Saturday, January 16.Weather good; wind light from northward
and westward. At daylight made time Ghauts Mountains and about
10 a. in. the lowland of the coast. At nieridian made the town of
Quilon, and bore up E. ~ S. for the town of Anjeuga, which we made
about 2 p. in. At 4:30 caine to in the road abreast of the fort, and dis-
patched a lieutenant on shore to s&#38; e about landing my prisoners. In
the evening the resident magistrates son came on board, and I arranged
the matter with him. There being no external trade or shipping at
Anjenga, the prisoners could not well get away by sea, but the young
man stated that there was lagoon navigation inland all the way to
Coehin, some 75 miles to the northward, and that at Cochin there wer

Page 796

790 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

always means of reaching Bombay and other ports. Native boats
were passing every day between Anjenga and and if i[ would
send the necessary provisions on shore for the prisoners his father
would see them transported to Cochin. I sent a lieutenant on shore
after night with the son to arrange the matter with the fi~ther, and as
the boat was delayed much beyond her time and we heard some firing
as of revolvers and muskets, and as there was also some surf running,
I became uneasy, and dispatched the first lieutenant and another boat
to look after matters. The chief magistrate had only beeu at public
worship, the cause of the detention of the boat, aud both boats returned
about 11:30 p. m. Calicut, about 160 miles to the N. W., was the first
part of the coast touched by Fasco de Gama in 1498. At the conquest
of Moorshedabad, in Bengal, by Clive, in 1857, among lacs of rnpees
piled up iu the nabobs treasury were now and then found forms and
byzants which the Venetians had carried thither to purchase the spices
and silks of the East before any European ship had doubled the Cape
of Good Hope.
	ASvunday, January 17.Weather very fine. At daylight sent all the
prisoners on shore, where they were landed, apparently in the presence
of half the village, the native boats taking theni through the surf, and
at 9:30 got underway just as the sea breeze set in lightly. In the
afternoon showed English colors to an English bark and ship. The
town of Anjenga was formerly of some importance as a shipping port
for the products of the countrycocoanut oil (immense plantations of
cocoanut trees stretching for miles along the coast), pepper, etc.bnt all
its trade ha~ passed to its more prosperous rivalCochin. It is in the
province of Travancore, and is only 15 miles distant from the city of
Travancore, the residence of the llajah. There is water communication
all the way, and the journey is generally made (in canoes) in the night
to avoid the heat of the sun. The natives of this part of Ilindostan
are very dark, nearly as black as the African, but very distinct from
him in their long, straight hair and prominent European features. A
large number of them visited the ship this morning. They were fine
specimens of physical development, and wore scarcely any other cover-
ing than a cloth about the loins. They were sprightly and chatty,
many talking at once, and in their quaint canoes made quite a picture.
Their language is soft and pleasant to the ear. The remains of Portu.
guese civilization and influence still linger here, the inhabitants being
Catholic, and a couple of neat stone churches stand on the very margin
of the bay, one at either end of the village. There are also the remains
of a dismantled fort. The means of living are abundant and cheap,
nature seeming to provide her children the necessaries of life without
toil and almost without exertion. The consequence is a lack of mateiial
development, but who shall say that the people are less happy for this ~
In the afternoon sighted a large steamer steering S. E. Toward night
showed English colors to an English bark. After nightfall observed sev-
eral fires blazing on the hills. To-day being a festival with the people,
these are probably bonfires in celebration of it. Calm nearly all night.
Latitude 8~ 40 N., longitude 760 32 E.
	Monday, January 18.Weather fimme, but, alas, calm also. We find a
land amid sea breeze along this coasf, both very light, with a long spell
of calm between the two. At 8 a. m. sent a boat on board of a Portu-
guese bark from Rio for Goa, out seventy days; the only Portuguese we
have seen in these seas, of which they were formerly masters. Latitude
8~3l 12 N., longitude 76030/ E. Lost sight of the land this morning

Page 797

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	79i


	Tuesday, January 19.Weather very fine, but nearly calm. We
have certainly had very fine weather since we have been off the coast
of Hindostan, but the N. E. monsoon has been a myth, the wind being
light and variable, and mostly from the westward. Latitude 80 5 N.,
longitude 750 5 E. Having sighted a large ship that behaved some-
what strangely in altering her course, and it falling calm, at 4 p. m. we
got steam on two boilers and gave chase. At 8:30 came up with and
boarded the stranger, lie refusing to heave to, although two guns were
fired, until he was hailed and ordered to do so. These obstinate old
seamen frequently try my patience and forbearance. He proved to be
an English ship from Bombay for the Mauritius, with 300 emigrant
coolies on board.
	Wednesday, January 20.Weather fine; wind very light from the
northward and eastward. Latitude 70 29 3 N., longitude 740 28 E.,
having experienced a current, S., of a knot and a half an hour, or 37
miles. Hove to at 4 p. m.
	Thursday, January 21.Weather very fine, with a moderate and gen-
tle breeze from the northward and eastward. At 8:30 a. m. made the
island of Minicoy, bearing about N. W. by W., the course I was steer-
ing when I hove to at 4 a. in. [4 p. ml]. I steered thus high to counteract
the southerly current of yesterday, but the current having ceased, the
course would have run me ashore if I had continued it and the night
had been dark, so uncertain is the navigation among these islands.
We stood in within a mile of the south end of the island, and sounded
~with 45 fathoms of line without finding bottom. Some half dozen boats
around us, all filled with a dark population resembling the Hindus of
the adjacent coastnaked, except a breechcloth and a sort of turban
for the head. The boats are fine models, with their Eastern prow
standing up some 6 feet and their substantial lug sails, woven ot some
coarse fiber. The entir&#38; island is a grove of cocoanut trees, which are
at once food and clothing for the idle population, which seemed to be
considerable. The boat loads appeared to be on an idle excursion, as
they were sailing about in different directions, apparently without an
object, except, perhaps, flshiiig. At meridian the southwest end of
Minicoy bore N. E. by N., distant 3 miles. One of the boats having
come alongside, I learned that, though there was plenty of water, there
were no refreshments to be had, and so we filled away and made sail
on our course.
	Friday, January 22.Weather very fine, with the breeze moderate
from about N. to N. by E. Current of 33 miles W. by S. Latitude 70
52 N. lom4tude 70~ 22 E. In the afternoon and night (bright moon-
light) it was a pleasure to look upon the weather and to inhale the soft
and balmy breeze. The sky was of the deepest blue, the trade clouds,
piled in fantastic fleeces, reflected the golden light of the sun, and the
deep-blue sea was just moved enough by the breeze to roughen its sur-
face, and thus to increase its hue and to give a pleasant motiou to the
ship as she rather skimmed over than ploughed through it. Crossing,
as we are the Arabian Sea, the lovely scene seemed redolent of
Arabys spices and pearly grottoes.
	saturday, January 23.Weather still continues fine. Wind mod-
erate from the N. N. E.; little or no current; sea smooth. Latitude
70 4 21, longitude 670 17.
	Sunday, January 24.Weather fine; wind moderate from about N.
N. E.; no current. Latitude 70 3, longitude 64~ 28.
	Monday, January 25.Weather fine; wind moderate from N. E.; no
current. Latitude 6~ 27 3, longitude 61~ 49

Page 798

798 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Tuesday, January 26.Weather line, clouding toward noon; a cur-
rent to the S. W. of about 20 miles. Latitude 5~ 33, longitude 590 19.
	Wednesday, January 27.Weather fine. It ha~ been scarcely neces-
~ry to touch a brace for the last six days. Little or no current. Lat-
itude 50 1 43, longitude 56~ 36.
	Thursday, January 28.Weather fine; wind fresh from the N. N. E. to
N. E. Latitude 40 2, longitude 530 46. Breakfasted on flying fish this
mormng, a number having been caught last night by the exhibition of
a light under the bow and the spreading of a net beneath it.
	Friaay, January 29.Weather fine; wind in oderate from N. E.; cur-
rent 30 miles, W. S. W. Latitude 20 43 13,] ongitude 51g. Calking
deck; seams very open. At 8 p. m. the water became so white that we
appeared to be running over a bank on which there was not more than
5 or 6 fathoms water. Shortened sail, hove the ship to, and got a cast
of the deep-sea lead. No bottom at 100 fathoms. Filled away and
made sail. This appe~rartce continued for several hours. The water
was not phosphorescent, but whitish, without sparkle.
	Saturday, January 30.Weather fine; wind moderate from the N. E.
Latitude 50 28 N., longitude 48~ 42. Current S. W., about 1 knot
p~ hour.
	Sunday, January 31.Weather fine; wind moderate from the N. E.
This is the tenth day we had studding sails on the ship continuously.
Latitude 10 31 57 5., longitude 470 20 30. Current 30 miles, S. W.
by S.
	]lilionday, February 1.Weather fine~ wind moderate from the N. E.
No current 4o-day; 30 miles yesterday. Latitude 30 15 2, longitude
46 13. Magellanic Clouds visible.
	Tuesday, February 2.Weather fine, but cloudy; wind light from
N. E. Current 25 miles, E. N. E. Latitude 4048 33, longitude 450 40.
Wind northward and westward [in the] evening.
	Wednesday, February 3.Sky overcast; wind light from the N. E.
Current 11 miles, S. W. Tide rips. Latitude 6~ 47 41, longitude
440 44

	Thursday, February 4.Weather fine; wind light from the N. N. E.
Current 21 miles, S. W. Latitude 80 24 28, longitude 440 26.
	Friday, February 5.Weather fine; wind moderate, inchiiming to be
light. Latitude 100 18 31, longitude 430 47. Current W. by 5., 37
miles.
	Saturday, February 6.Weather fine and nearly calm. Light airs
from N. N. E. Current 20 miles, W. by N. ~ N. Latitude 100 42 46,
longitude 440 Only 38 miles from Comoro, which, the books say, should
be seen in clear weather, such as we have, from 50 to 60 miles, and yet
we have not seen it. A dead calmim during the whole miight.
	Sunday, February 7.Weather fine, calm, and light airs from the
northward and eastward. A current of 20 miles, W. N. W .~N. Lati-
tude 100 44 47, longitude 430 50. Just at nightfall made the island
of Comoro, northwest end bearing S. W. ~ S. At 8 p. m. a light breeze
from the N. E., which lasted an hour and a half. Calm the rest of the
night.
	Monday, February 8.A profound calm during the last twenty-four
hours, the ship having passed through the water just 8 miles. Current
W. by N. ~ N., 13 miles. Northwest end of Comoro bearing, at noon,
S. W. ~ S., distant 30 miles. Latitude 100 45 30, longitude 430 42 30.
	Tuesday, February 9.-Weather fine. The dead calm continuing, at
1:30 a. m. put the ship under steam arid went ahead 9 knots through
the sluggish, glassy sea. At 3:30 passed iu sight of the northeast en

Page 799

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	799

of Comoro. Soon after daylight made the islands of Johanna and
Mohulla, not a breath of air stirring, and at 1:30 came to anchor about
3 miles west of the town, in 25 fathoms water, ab~~t three-fourths of a
mile from the shore; hoklin g ground good; sand and ooze. Sent out a
kedge to keep the ship from fouling her anchor. Di~patched the pay-
master to the town to arrange for fresh provisions. The sun scorching
hot. In the afternoon visited by a number of boats from the shore;
canoes with a couple of poles lashed across their gunwales attached to
a float on each side to secure their stability. Stalwart, naked negroes
were mostsly their occupants. Many of these people speak a little
English. Among others, a dignitar,y of the church caine on board with
the compliments of the chief priest (Mohammedan). We made arrange-
ments with him for the supply of the ship. One of his companions
asked me to which of the belligerent parties I belonged, the North or
the South. I replied to the South. Then, said he, you belong to
Phe side which upholds slavery. Yes, said 1, we belong to the
country where the black man is best takemi care of in any part of the
world, etc. The churchman seeing me put on the defensive, as it
were, came to my aid and said, Oh, we are slaveholders here; being
Mohammedans, we have no prejudices that way. Our only trouble is
that we can not get slaves enough for our purposes. The English, who
have no control of us, we being an independent government, are strong
enough to interfere with everybodys business, and to say to us that we
bring over from the Main no more slaves. The slaves themselves
would gladly come to us, as they are much better off than under their
native chief~, who are continually making war upon and murdering
and enslaving one another. My informant was himself a full-blooded
African negro, as black as the ace of spades, but with an immacidate
white turban on his head, and the flowing robe and loose jacket of the
Mohammedan.
	Wednesday, February 10.Weather fine, with clouds hovering over
the island, and slight showers of rain among the hills. Yisited by the
Kings dragoman this morning, who came to pay the respects of the
authorities and to say that he was glad to see us in Johanna. In course
of conversation lie was pleased to say that our ship was well known to
him, etc.; that the news of our having appeared off the cape some
months ago had driven off all the Yankee whalers, several of which
had been accustomed to resort hither. The King, he said (Abdallak),
resided on the east side of the island; he had left him yesterday. The
King himself would come ov~ to see us, but he was very busy just now
putting [up] a sugar mill, which he had just received fromn the Mauritius.
The dragonian advised me to go round to Pomona [Pomony], on the
south side of the island, where there was a good harbor ,.shelt~red from
the north winds, which blew very strong here at pretty re6nlar periods
of ten days, lasting four or five days an(l raising a heavy sea, cutting
off all communication with the shore. He would pilot me round him-
self if I desired to go. The island [is] a beautiful, picturesque spot, as
indeed all broken country in the tropics must always be. There is
quite a mountain in the interior, and the higher parts of the island are
densely wooded, the mountain sides in sonu~ places beimig so steep that
the tops of some trees touch the trunks a.nd roots of others. The lower
hills nearer the sea are well cleared and, covered with the richest vege-
tationgrapes, shrubs, and copses of cocoanut and other trees inter-
mixedpresented every variety of verdure, and thus rendering the
landscape exceedingly beautiful. Patches of cultivation were frequent,
and now and then a hut could be detected peeping out from the mids

Page 800

800 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUJSERSCONFEDERAT%E.


of a sheltering grove, and numerous cattle (among other the humped
ox) were grazing quietly on the hillsides or in the rich ravines. The
means of life are abundant, and the climate healthy and kindly to the
human frame on the score of covering, and a pastoral life among these
hills seemed to have many attractions. The inhabitants are a mixture
of Arabs and negroes, with a spare Persian, or Indian. They are quite
intelligent and sprightly, and had not only heard of the American war,
but said that it bore heavily upon them, as they were now compelled
to pay much higher prices for their goods (mostly cotton). We had
driven away, they said, all their Yankee trade. The Sultan is a youi~g
man of 28, with a moderate harem of only five wives. Sent 011 shore
a batch of liberty men.
	Thursday, February 11.Weather continues fine, and the moon hav-
ing changed without bringing us a northerly wind (which makes the
anchorage a bad one), the chances are we shall have a weeks good
weather. I have therefore resisted the invitation of the dragoman to pro-
ceed to Pomona [Pomony), on the south side of the island, where resides
the English consul, and where there is said to be a good though small
harbor inside the reef. The English have here a depot for coal and pro-
visions. The consul cultivates a sugar estate. Visited the town to get
sight for my chronometers, which puts the town iii 440 26 30jnst
30 less than Captain Owens determination. The town, as viewed
from the anchorage, is quite a picturesque object, with its tall min-
aret, its two forts, one perched on a hill commanding the town and the
other on the seabeach, and its stone houses, bnt the illusion is rudely
dispelled upon landing. You land on a beach of rocks and shingle,
through a considerable surf, even in the mildest weather. The beach
was strewed with the washed clothes of the ship, and a set of vagabonds
of all colors, save only that of the Caucasian, were lounging about,
looking curiously on, with fruits, shells, etc., for sale. The town is dilapi-
dated and squalid to the last degree, the houses of rough stone,
cemented and thatched, the streets 5 feet wide, and rendered, as it
would seem, purposely, crooked, after the fashion of a labyrinth. It was
the second day of the fast of the IRamadan, and groups of idlers were
congregated in the narrow porticoes, reading the Koran. The language
which is peculiar to the islands is very soft and pleasing to the ear.
We visited one of the principal houses. The walls were filled with a
number of small niches, the receptacles for everything imaginable
coffee cups, ornaments, etc.a number of couches around the rooii~, etc.
A number of half-clad, dirty children gathered aronnd us, but no
female made her appearance. We took our sights among the gaping
multitude, all of whom were very civil and polite, and returned on
board about 5 p. in., having seen all the outside life that was to be
seen at Anznan. The inside life was, of conrse, out of our reach. Upon
comii ~g on deck this mornii~g I was struck with the soft, picturesque
beauty of the hills as shone upon by the mornings sun, lighting up
the tops and sides of the hills, and throwing the valleys aud ravines
into shade, etc. At night I am lulled by the roar of the sea upon the
near beach, and it is delightful to snuff the fragrance of the land, as it
comes off to us after night upon the dew-laden wings of the softest of
all breezes. My vagabonds on shore looked rueful and woe-begone.
Nature had no beauties for them, and there was no liquor to be had.
If I were to remain here long, I should make it ii practice to send them
on shore for punishment.
	Friday, February 12.Weather still very fine, with light airs and
calms, and the stun pouring dowli intensely hot. This is the Mohar

Page 801

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	801

medan Sabbath, but they do not keep it so grimly as the Puritans,
since we had a number of visitors on board this morning, and among
others several princes, cousins-german of the Sult~, one of them being
commander in chief of the army. The commander in chief gave me
an acconnt of the affair of the Dale, some years ago. Two Yankee
whalers came in. One of them obtained provisions to the amount of
$250, telling the people he was too poor to pay for them in money, but
that he would give them a bill on the consul at Zanzibar. To this they
assented. The skipper ran off with his ship in the night without giv-
ing the bill. They seized the other captain and took him on shore to
keep him as a hostage while his ship should go in pursuit of the other
and get the promised bill, but they thought better of it after a few
hours and released him. The Dale came the next season and demanded
$25,000, and threatened to burn the town if the money was not paid.
They could not pay, as there was probably not so large a sum in the
island. They set fire to one end of the town, which consumed two or
three houses, and cannonaded the fort, doing it some damage, and
withdrew. This is about the usual origin of the Yankee shipmasters
complaints to their Government. I made a present of a captured
Yankee clock to each of the princes, and gave them a package of writ-
ing paper. They seemed anxious to get some finery for their wives,
but we told them we were not in that line, like the Yankee whalers.
	Saturday, February 13.The weather continues very fine, the evenings
being truly enchanting, the atmosphere transparent, a gentle land breeze
stirring, and a few lazy clouds sailing leisurely across the moon in her
first quarter. I visited the town again to-day, called at the houses of a
conpie of the princes, in which I found everything dirty, with an attempt
at tawdry finery. A black houri was set to fan me, and we were served
with rose sirup. Walked to the princes garden, a beautiful wilderness
of cocoa and betel nut, sweet orange, and mango, with heterogeneous
patches of rice, sweet potatoes, and beans, with here and there a cotton
plant. Two or three huts of the slaves were dotted about, and walls of
loose stones ran along crooked lanes and byways. As we came off they
were some at evening prayer, and others were seated on stone benches
preparing to take their evening meal. A sail in sight from the hills,
though not visible from the ship. The people met us everywhere with
kindly greetings, and the cadi, a venerable looking old mami, wished me
a safe return to my country. The price of a slave here fresh from the
coast is $5.
	Sunday, February 14.Weather charming, if not quite so hot. Vis-
ited in force again to-day by the princes and other chief men. In the
afternoon the muezzin, or high priest, visited me. He was a fine-look-
ing Arabby descentwith a well-developed forehead and easy, gen-
tlemanly bearing. He was evidently looked up to with great respect by
his attendants. He wore a sword. He expressed much sympathy with
our cause and said he would pray to Allah for our success. The Yan-
kee whalers, he said, invariably stole some of their slaves. Still they
could not do very well without them, as they were the only traders to
the island, and brought there many useful things in exchange for their
bullocks and fruit and products. This morning the liberty of my
men was out, and it was found that four of them were missing. We
afterwards learned they had taken to the hills, of course with the inten-
tion to abscond. I offered a reward for them, and after night they were
brought on board to me. I have thus got them all on board again, nor
could they debauch themselves with liquor, there being none on the
island.
N W IRYOL 115

Page 802

802 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE

	Monday, February 15.Weather very fine, though the wind is very
light. Received on board some bullocks, sea st~res of fruit, and paid
our bills, and were taken leave of affectionately~y the simple people,
and at meridian moved out of the anchorage under steam, amid the
cheers (given in real English fashion) of the many boatmen that sur-
rounded us. Reef visible about a mile out from the west side of Saddle
Island. Mohilla N. W. at nightfall, distant, 9 or 10 miles.
	Tuesday, February 1G.Weather clear and wind very light from the
N. N. E. Sun nearly vertical at noon, his altitude being 890 16. Lati-
tude 130 2 21, the center of Mohilla bearing N. N. E. Court-martial
on four deserters.
	Wednesday, February 17.Weather fine; breeze very light from
N. N. W. to N. E. Current about 18 miles, S. W. Latitude 13~ 41 32.
longitude 430 4~
	Thursday, February 18.Nearly calm during the twenty-four hours;
sun exceedingly hot. Current about 18 miles, S. W. Latitude 140 15,
longitude 42~ 45.
	Friday, February 19.Cloudy weather, with a falling barometer;
the great heat diminished. In the afternoon kept off to intercept a
sail. Afternoon calm. At nightfall had a pretty good view of the ship
at about 10 miles distance. She did not look American. Kept on our
course. Latitude 150 3 49, longitude, 420 24.
	iS1aturday, February 20.Sky overcast in every direction. At 2 a. m.
had a heavy squall from the N. W. Close reefed. Barometer, 28.75.
At 8 a. m. made sail. No observation for latitude. Obtained longi-
tude, the probable error of latitude being of no consequence. Lati-
tude, ID. It., 160, longitudechronometer, 410 45; ID. iR., 410 47.
	~Sunday, February 21.Weather fine, but very oppressive from the
heat. Wind light from the N. E. Last night the barometer settled to
29.67, and has risen a little since (29.74) without any disturbance as yet
of the atmosphere, though we hav~ ~ considerable swell this morning
from the southward and westward. Current southeasterly. Latitude
17~ 2 51, longitude 410 31.
	Monday, February 22.Wind light from the northward and eastward.
Barometer ranging from 29.68 to 29.80, as it has for the last two or
three days, falling in the afternoon and rising during the night and
early morning. Latitude 180 43 40, longitude 410 20. Current 12
miles, S. S. B.
	Tuesday, February 23.A rainy mortting, with an overcast sky; wind
light from the southward and eastward. Latitude 190 49 19, longitude
410 23. Barometer, 29.70. Wind southward and westward in the
afternoon. We have thus lost the feeble monsoon, which has been
dying for two weeks past. The current chopped round suddenly to-day,
and we have been set 37 miles W. by S. Barometer sank during the
night to 29.55.
	Wednesday, February 24.Weather looking boisterous
fresh from the S. W., hauling to S. B. and back again ~ with wind
to S. by W. in
the course of an hour. Lowering clouds all round, and the barometer
at 29.43 at noon, and falling. Beefed down to close reefs, and took
bonnets off the trysails. Latitude 200 29 18, longitude 410 19.
Current 27 miles, N. ~ E. In the afternoon the barometer continued to
sink until it reached 29.36, where it remained stationary for axvhile,
and then began to rise. The wind freshened to a gale as nibht set in,
and blew strong during the night, though the gale was by no means
severe. The wind hauled, according to rule, from S. by W. by B. to
N. B. This indicated the passage of the gale from S. E. to N. W., an

Page 803

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	803

so (being in the left-hand semicircle) wore ship at 10 p. m. and hove to
on the port tack and furled the fore-topsail. Cyclone in Mozambique.
Winds S. E. to N. W.
	Thursday, February 25.Gale blowing very fresh in squalls of rain.
Set fore-topsail and made sail on our course. The barometer rose until
it reached 29.50, where it still is (4 p. in.), having remained at that
point since 7 a. m. Weather looking better, with patches of blue sky
and the sun occasionally visible. Latitude 21~ 18 39, longitude
410 44. And so I shaped my course to bid a welcome adieu to the
Mozambique Channel and its calms and currents and capricious winds
and weather. At 1:30 overhauled an English ship, to which we
showed French colors. The weather became beautiful and serene
about sunset, but toward 8 p. in., the barometer still being down, a
dense cloud, with lightning, began to arise in the east, and rose very
rapidly. Shortened sail at once. About 8:30 a dense thundercloud
enveloped us, and we experienced a sublime thunderstorm and of wind
and rain. It became pitch-dark, the lightning was vivid and freqnent,
and the rolling of the thunder, interrupted now and then with a sharp
crash, was almost constant.
	Friday, February 2G.Weather fine, with the wind from the N. E.,
freshening as the day advanced. Barometer at noon, 29.64, having
risen 0.14 only in twenty-four honrs. Fresh breeze during the night,
S. E. Latitude 230 36 22, longitude 410 15 30.
	Saturday, February 27.Strong breeze from the S. E. and a rough
sea. Latitude 25~ 31 52, longitude 4Q0~ Current 14 miles, W. by N.
Barometer, 29.74, having risen one-tenth in twenty-four hours.
	Sunday, Pebruary 28.Morning ugly and squally, with a heavy swell
from the southward and eastward. Weather clearing toward noon.
Barometer, 29.86; has risen 0.12 in the twenty-four hours. Curreut 2~
knots per hour, or 63 miles, W. by N. Latitude 270 11 16, lo~igitude
370 51 35. This afternoon, for the first time, the ship was thrown
into confusion by the cry of man overboard. I immediately sprang
on deck, and the ship being hove to and sail shortened, a boat was
lowered and sent iu pursuit of the men, for there were two of them, the
mami who had fallen overboard and a shipmate (Michael Mars), who,
seizing a grating, jumped overboard to his rescue. They were both
saved, and after a detention of some twenty minutes we filled away on
our course again. Sea quite rough, and wind fresh.
	Monday, February 29.Weather fine, with the breeze stiff from the
S. E.; not so much sea as yesterday. Barometer, 29.94. Latitude
29~ 16 56, Ion gitude 360 17. Current 35 miles, W.
	Tuesday, March 1.Weather clear, becoming rather grayish toward
the afternoon. Latitude 310 32, longitude 340 37 30. Current 30
miles, W. by N. We have the barometer at last at 30.
	Wednesday, March 2.Weather cloudy; wind N. N. E. Latitude
330 20, longitude 320 22. Current IN. W., 11 miles.
	Thursday, March 3.Weather clear overhead, with flying white
clouds; hazy around the horizon. Blowing a fresh gale from about
N. N. E. Barometer falling rapidly, being at 29.65 at noon. Latitude
350 5, longitude 290 49. Current 27 miles, E. ~ S. We saw the first
cape pigeon and albatross to-day. The barometer went down to 29.53,
and toward night a cloud arose in the N. W. and the gale burst upon
us from that quarter in a squall of rain. We had already single reefed.
Double reefed, and reefed the trysails. The wind blew very heavy in
squalls during the night, and raised a very abrupt, ugly sea, which
stove in the weather bridle port. Battened down hatches and wove to
the southward at 3 a. m

Page 804

804 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Friday, March 4.The gale still continues, though it is moderating
very fast now (at 10 a. in.), and the barometer has risen to 29.97. Sea
not so turbulent, though the ship is thundering into it now and then
and keeping the decks flooded. My ship is weary, too, as well as her
commander, and will need a general overhanliug by the time I can get
her into a dock. If my poor services shall be deemed of any impor-
tance in harassing and weakening the enemy, and thus contributing to
the independence of my beloved South, I shall be amply rewarded.
Latitude 350 11 22, longitude 280 28. Current 12 miles, N. W. We
have again changed our climate. Two weeks ago we were sweltering
under the heats of the equator; to-day we are wrapped up in our pea-
jackets.
	Saturday, March 5.The gale blew itself out yesterday morning,
leaving a very heavy, irregular sea, which [lasted] all day and night.
This morning the weather is alternately clear and cloudy, with the
wind from the N. E., and the barometer, which had gone up to
30.1, settling to 29.9 at meridian. Latitude 350 51 11 S., longitude
260 43 15 E.
	Sunday, March 6.Weather clear, with a moderate breeze from the
N. W. Two ships in sight to windward. Mustered the crew and read
the articles of war and a general order approving of the conduct of
Michael Mars, seaman, for his rescuing Godson from drowning on Sun-
day last. Latitude 390 9~ longitude 240 58 30. The barometer fell
to 29.8, and in the afternoon we had another gale from the westward,
continuing through the night. Having approached near enough to a
third sail to see that she looked Yankee, wore ship in chase after dark,
but the wind heading us toward the land we wore offshore again at 10
p. m. Current 30 miles, W.
	Monday, March 7.We have what seamen expressively call a nasty
day. Weather thick and wct, a rough, confused sea, and light wind
from the S. W.; ship rolling ond pitching and tumbling, with every
conceivable variety of motion, and with all the delightful noises of
creaking bulkhead, jerking tiller ropes, etc., incident thereto. Two
sail in sight, the nearest evidently foreign, under short sail. Showed
English colors to an English ship. Latitude 350 10 25, longitude
24~ 3. Current W. N. W., 35 miles. Heavy sea on. On soundings at
5 p. m. on the Agulhas Bank.
	Tuesday, March 8.Weather fine. Crossing the Agullias Bank.
Heavy, rolling sea. Current 29 miles, S. by W. ~ W. Three sail in
sightthe one we passed last night and two ahead. One of these we
make out to be foreign. Latitude 350 49 45, longitude 2l~ 39. In
the evening the barometer sank to 29.8, and we had something of a
blow from the S. W.
	Wednesday, March 9.A half dozen different kinds of weather in as
many hours this morning. Showed English colors to a French ship,
an English ship, and a Dutch bark. Wind from the W. N. W. to
S. W. Latitude 350 46, longitude 20~ 29. Current 10 miles, N.
	Thursday, March 10.Weather clear and calm. One sail in sight
from the masthead. Latitude 350 42 16, longitude 20~ 13. No cur-
rent. Setting up the main rigging.
	Friday, March 1 1.Morning, sky overcast in every direction. At
noon, clear. Wind light from the southward. At 8 a. m. made the
Cape of Good Hope. Latitude 350 8, longitude l8~ 21 45. In the
afternoon showed the English colors to a Dutch ship. Sighted a large
steamer standing south. Passed within 15 miles of the cape light,
ran some 20 miles toward Cape Town, and hauled out to the north

Page 805

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	805

ward and westward. Blowing a gale of wind at nightfall from the S. E.
Sky perfectly clear, with a hazy horizon, and baroi~eter at 30. Setting
up mizzen rigging.
	Saturday, March 12.Clear overhead; hazy around the horizon blow
ing a moderate gale from S. E. Hove to nuder close reefs. Latitude
330 57 27, longitude 170 6 30. In the afternoon a steamer passed
us some 7 or 8 miles to windward, steering to the eastward. Probably
the cape mail, due about this time. At 7 p. m. a ship passed us, steer-
ing to the northward and westward. Wore and approached her near
enough to discover that she was not American. Blowing a fresh gale
from the southward, with hazy weather.
	Sunday, March 13.Weather cloudy; wind fresh from the south-
ward. At 10 sent a boat on board an English ship, fifty-seven days
from Calcutta. We passed as the U. S. S. Dacotah, bound to the East
Indies to relieve the Wyoming. She reports that the Alabama is play-
ing the mischief in the Java Sea. Latitude 330 35, longitude 160 10.
Toward nightfall boarded a Hamburg bark, forty-five days from Macao.
She brings the same report of the panic spread in the China seas by
the Alabama.
	Monday, March 14.Wind fresh from the S. E. Latitude 310 3, longi-
tude 150 20. Chasing a ship from 11:30 until half past 3, when, seeing
that she had no appearance of a Yankee, and the chase being likely,
besides, to run us some distance off our cruising ground, we wore ship
and hauled on a wind to the eastward. As night closed a gale set in
from about S. S. E. and blew freshly all night. Close reefed. This is
the fourth gMe in this month. Well may the Cape of Good Hope [be]
called the stormy cape.
	Tuesday, March 15.Cloudy; gale continues from the same quarter.
Under the same sail, with head still to the eastward. Latitude 330 48
48, longitude 150 23. As night set in the gale increased, and blew
strong all night, the ship rolling and jerking in an abrupt sea. Weather
thick and hard looking. We have been for the last four iiights, during
which it has been blowing a gale of wind from the S. E., in rather a
ticklish position, lying in the track of vessels bounding before the gale
at the rate of 10 or 12 knots per hour, with the ability to see them only
about a mile off, which distance they could mu in from five to six min-
utes. But we have carried a light when the moon has gone down, and
kept a bright lookout. Contrary to, all rule elsewhere, the easterly
gales off~ the cape blew with a high barometerthat is, they commence,
continue, and end with the barometer from 30 to 30.5.
	Wednesday, March 16.The gale broke this morning, though the
wind continues light from the same quarterS. E. Weather clear.
We have had various currents during the last three days. On the 14th
40 miles, N. W.; on the 15th 5. W., 40 miles; and to-day 20 miles, N.
Although we have crossed the entire track within the last twenty-four
hours, we have seen no sail, but darkness probably hides half of them
from us; aud thus far it is as well, for we have had such ugly weather
that it has been out of the questionthe chasing or boarding a ship
during the night. We have been thankful, on the contrary, to keep
out of their way. Latitude 320 50 10, longitude 160 31.
	Thursday, March 17.Wind light. We have had the current to the
N. B., 21 miles. Lighted and banked the third fire. Latitude, obser-
vation, near noon, 330 10; longitude, 16~ 22.
	Friday, March 18.Morning gray. Wind light from the S. B. At
7 a. m. sent a boat on board of a Spanish bark, from Manila for Cowes.
She reported having lost both topsail yards in a hurricane off th

Page 806

806 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

Mauritins. Sixty-five days out; no news. At 10 gave chase to a bark,
which we soon after lost sight of in a dense fog. NQ observation. Lati-
tude, computation, 330 33?; longitude, 160 46?. The fog continuing
until 2 p. ni., discontinued chase. Fog lifted about 5 p. ni.
	&#38; tturday, illarch 19.Morning very bright and fine; wind light from
the eastward, falling calm toward noon. A sail in sight to the north-
ward. Latitude 320 57, longitude 150 55. Current to the northward
about 50 miles, or 2 knots per hour. Calm all the afternoon and night.
At 10 p. m. went ahead nuder steam.
	Sunday, illiarch 20.Early morning clear, clouding toward noon.
Wind light from the southward and westward. During the morning
overhauled an English and a Dutch ship and an English schooner and
a Dutch bark. Latitude 330 51, longitude 17031. Afternoon: Weather
thick. Running in for Cape Town. Made the land at 1 p. in., and at
4:30 p. m. came to in the harbor in 64- fathoms water and sent au officer
to call on the authorities. Just at nightthll a French steam sloop of
war came in and anchored near us.
	Monday, March 21.Blowing a gale of wind from the S. E. The
usual fleecy cloud on the top of Table Mountain. At 11 let go a second
anchor and veered to 90 fathoms on the riding chain. During the
afternoon and night the wind blew furiously. The English mail steamer
went to sea at 4 p. in., saluting us with her ensign as she passed.
Learned [of] the seizure of the Tuscaloosa, on the ground that, being a
prize, and having come into British waters in violation of the Queens
proclamation, she would be delivered up to her original owners. We
are in the midst of the fruit season, the figs and grapes being particu-
larly fine.
	Tuesday, March 22.Gale still continues, though somewhat moder-
ated. Addressed a dispatch to Admiral Sir Baldwin Walker on the
subject of the seizure of the Tuscaloosa. Received permission to get
on board supplies and coal.
	Wednesday, March 23.Weather clear. The gale has moderated, and
we commenced at [12] :30 p. m. to receive coal from a couple of lighters.
The gale increased toward nightfall and blew fresh all night. The late
Yankee bark Urania came in under English colors.
	Thursday, March 24.Weather clear. The gale has finally broken.
We are very busy receiving coal and provisions, and still we are both-
ered with visitors, ladies among others. Finished coaling and receiv-
ing supplies this evening.
	Friday, March 25.Weather very fine. At 10 a. m. steamed out of
the harbor amidst the hnrrahs of surrounding boats, filled with curious
spectators, and passed (just inside the harbor) the Yankee steamer Quang
Tung, with the Yankee colors up, comin~ in. Half an hour more and
we should have made a prize of her. Such are the chances of war!
Latitude 340 2 5., longitude 18~ 10 E. Shipped four men who came
on board of us at the last moment.
	Saturday, March 26.Cloudy weather, with an occasional sprinkle of
rain. Wind hauled suddenly at meridian from N. to S. W, and blew
fresh during the afternoon, with some sea on. Latitude 330 41 30,
longitude 150 52 15. Jail delivery, as usual, upon coming out of port
this morning.
	Sunday, March 2g.Dull, cloudy weather, with a moderate breeze
and a heavy sea, from the southward and eastward. Roughness of the
ships bottom impeding her sailing from 1 to 2 knots an hour. Latitude,
D. H., 31~ 50; longitude, 12~ 39

Page 806A


Page 806B

CONFEDERATE STATES STEAMER GEORGIA

Page 807

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	807

	Monday, ]Vlarch 28.Observation to-day shows that we have had 65
miles southwesterly current in the last two days. Latitude 310 36 24,
longitude 100 9.
	Tuesday, March 29.Wind light from the southward. Current 21
miles, W. by N.; heavy, sluggish sea. Latitude 300 25, longitude 8025.
I have at length had a little leisure to read the late papers received at
the cape. The Yankee Government and people, and along with them
the English press and people, or a greater portion of them, seemed to
havejumped suddenly to the conclusion that we are beaten, and that the
war must soon end by our submission. Mr. Lincoln has even gone so far
as to prescribe the terms on which our States may reenter the rotten
concern, to wit, by a reorganization of the State government by one
touch of the people, and by taking an oath to abide by his villainous
proclamation, depriving us of our property, subject to the decision of a
packed Supreme Yankee Court. Verily, the delusion of these people in
the matter of this war is unaccountable. No power on earth can sub-
jugate the Southern States, although some of them, as Maryland and
Kentucky, have been guilty of the pusillanimity of making war with
Yankees against their sisters. History will brand them as traitors and
cowards. As for the tone of the English press, I am not surprised at
it.	England is too rich to be generous. The sordid pursuit of gain has
stifled all her nobler qualities, and she is cowering beneath the Yankee
lash like a whipped spaniel. She is afraid of losing the Canadas and
her money bags afloat on the ocean. All her human sympathies being
thus dried up, she is ready to make friends with the stronger party.
If we come ~vell out of the war, she will be wheedling us for a free-
trade treaty and swearing that she has always been our fast friend. If,
contrary to all human calculation, we should be subjugated, she will
throw her harlot arms around the Yankees and claim credit for all the
unfriendliness slzown us during the war. Our war is, for her, a sort of
prize fight, and she is looking on in about the same spirit with which
her rabble horde lately viewed the fight between King and Heenan
Hurrah one; well done the other!
	Wednesday, March 30.Weather cloudy; clear; wind light from the
southward. Current 11 miles, N. W. Latitude 280 53 45, longitude
60 55
	Thursday, ]Vliarch 31.Weather fine; wind light from the southward.
Current S. W., 40 miles. Latitude 280 54, longitude 40 50 15.



Cruise of the C. S. S. Georgia, April 9, 1863March 31, 1864.

Report of Commander Naury, C. S. Navy, commanding the C. 8. S. Georgia, of the cruise of
that vessel from the Cape of Good Hope to Cherbourg, France. *
C. S. S. GEORG.TA,
Cherbonrg, November 1, 1863.
	SIR: II have the honor to inform you that we arrived at this place
from Simons Bay, via the island of Teneriffe, on the 28th ultimo, having
had a passage of sixty days.
	The Alabama and Tuscaloosa left Simons Bay the day before we
arrived there. We made a narrow escape from the Vanderbilt, as she
went in a short time afterwards (about sixteen hours). Our safety was
owing, probably, to our having run to the southward in chase of a
vessel.

Former reports of the operations of this vessel not found

Page 808

808 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Off Table Mountaiii we captured the slip John Watts, of Bath, Me.,
with a cargo of teak wood, and, as this beloiiged to neutrals, she was
released upon a ransom bond.
	On the 9th of October, iu ]atitude 180136/ N., longitude 19~ 25 W.,
we captured the ship Bold Hunter, of Boston, with a cargo of coal.
She was burned, and the crew, with the exception of a few who enlisted
on board this vessel, were landed at Teneriffe.
	On the 15th October we arrived at Teneriffe (Santa Cruz) and were
civilly received by the authorities, who allowed us to procure coal arid
other supplies, notwithstanding the earnest protest of the U. S. consul.
	From Teneriffe to this place we had pleasant weather and fell in with
a great many vessels, not one of which was American.
	Accompanying this I send a copy of a communication I had written
to Mr. Slidell before I was aware you were in command.
	We shall want some officers, but I will confer with you on this sub-
ject when I go to Paris.
Ii	am, respectfully, your obedient servant,
	Wi~r. L. MAURY,
	Flag-Officer S. BARRON,	Commander.

Paris.

[Enclosure.]

C. S. S. GEORGIA,
Cherbourg, October 31, 1863.
	SIR: I deem it my duty to state to you, for such action as you may
deem proper, the conduct of A. Burot, master of the French bark Pat-
ne, toward us. On the afternoon of the 20th October we came within
hail of the vessel, arid in the risnal manner told the in~ster to heave to.
This was not done, but as the wind was light I sent a boat alongside
with a lieutenant and midshipman and four men, the officers having
their side arms and the boats crew unarmed, when the master, using
the most abusive language toward the officers, ordered her off saying:
I will not stop for all the scoundrel pirates. This abuse commenced
before the officers had spoken to him.
	The boat returned to the steamer. I then sent the first lieutenant,
W. E. Evans, with the midshipman and same men, who were now
armed, to go alongside and remonstrate with the master upon the
impropriety of his conduct; that we, as belligerents, had the right to
go on board, and that I should certainly exercise that right. He
refused admittance the second time, when the boat returned alongside.
	I then ordered a blaTuk cartridge to be fired, which was not heeded.
Two shots were then fired across his bows, and the vessel was hove to.
	On the third visit of the boat, with the same officers and crew, they
were received.
	The master was requested to show his papers, when he asked Mr.
Evans if he declined doing so would force be nsed, calling at the
same time his crew to witness the answer. He was answered in the
affirmative.
	He then invited the officers in his cabin, was very civil, and exhibited
his papers.
I have the honor to be, sir, yonr obedient servant,
	WM. L. MAURY,
	Hon. JOHN SLIDELL,	Lieutenant, Commanding.
Commissioner of the Confederate A~tates of America at Paris

Page 809

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	809

Report of Commander Maury, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Georgia, regarding the unfitness
of that vessel for cruising against the commerce of the enemy.


C.	S. S. GEORGIA,
Cherbourg, December 27, 1863.
	SIR: In your communication of yesterdays date (already acknowl-
edged) you require my report as to the unfitness of this vessel as a
cruiser against the commerce of the enemy.
	in reply I have the honor to state that the propelling power of the
sails is so small that she can not cruise advantageously and capture
enemy~s vessels under them. She has to chase always under steam,
which necessarily causes great consumption of fuel, and to cruise
actively it is necessary for her to coal frequently.
I am, respectfully, etc.,	~ L. MAUn-r,

Commander.
	Flag-Officer S. BARRON,
Parts.


Letter from Messrs. Taylor &#38; Millar, of Dundee, Scotland, to the Secretary of State of the Con-
federate States, requesting indemnity in the matter of the cargo of the ship Reld Hunter.

DUNDEE, January 4, 1864.
	SIR: By the advice of Mr. Slidell, the representative of your Govern-
ment at Pari~, we beg respectfully to lay before you the following case:
	The ship Bold Hunter, of Boston (United States), li. II. Crosby,
commander, sailed from this port for Calcutta on 10th September last,
having on board 1,025 tons of coals on our account, and on the 9th of
October, when in latitude 190 N. and longitude 210 W., the vessel and
her cargo were destroyed by the C. S. S. Georgia.
	We beg, therefore, to enclose herewith copy of bill of lading, and to
request the favor of your bringing this matter before the proper parties,
believing that the Confederate Government will at once recognize our
claim, being British subjects, to be indemnified for the loss of said
coals, which were not insured against war risk.
	The loss sustained by the destruction of the cargo we estimate at
550 (being 450 the value of the coals when shipped and 100 for loss
of market), of which sum we hope to have payment from your Govern-
ment at their earliest convenience.
	Waiting the favor of reply,
We have the honor to be, sir, your most obedient servants,
TAYLOR &#38; MILLAR.
Hon. SECRETARY OF STATE,
Coi~federate States of America, Richmond.
	Address Taylor &#38; Millar, 19 Dock street, Dundee, Scotland.

[Enclosure.]


Bifl of Lading.

	Shipped in good order and well conditioned by Messrs. Taylor &#38; 
Millar, in and upon the good ship called the Bold Hunter, whereof K. II.
Crosby is master for this present voyage, and now lying in the harbor
of Dundee, and bound for Calcutta, to say ten hundred and twenty-
five tons and eighteen hundredweights coals, being marked and nu

Page 810

810 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

bered as in the margin, and to be delivered in like good order and well
conditioned at the aforesaid port of Calcutta (the act of God, the
Qneens enemies, fire, and all aiid every other di?ngers and accidents
of the seas, rivers, and navigation, of whatever nature and kind soever,
excepted), nnto order or to assigns, lie or they paying freight for the
said goods at the rate of twenty-five shillings per ton, with primage
and average accustomed. In witness whereof the master or purser
of the said ship hath affirmed to three bills of lading, all of this tenor
and date, one of which being accomplished, the other two to stand
void.
	Dated in Dundee, 9th day of September, 1863.
11.	II. CRosBY.

The within-mentioned coals have the British Government certificate.


Order of Flag-Officer Barron, C. S. Navy, to Commander Kaury, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S.
Georgia, detaching him from the command of that vessel.

PAnis, January 19, 1864.
	Sin: In consequence of your application, under an advisory certifi-
cate of ill-health from Dr. Thomas J. Wheeden, the medical officer of
the steamer Georgia, to be relieved from the command of that ves-
sel, you are hereby detached, and after turning over the command
temporarily to Lieutenant W. E. Evans you will report to me iii person
in this city for other duty.
Respectfully, etc.,
S.	BARRON,
Flag- Officer.
Commander WM. L. MATJRY,
C.	S. S. Georgia, Cherbourg, France.


Instructions from Flag-Officer Barron, C. S. Navy, to Lieutenant Evans, C. S. Navy, commanding

C. S. S. Georgia, regarding the equipment of the C. S. S. Rappahannock.

PARIs, January 29, 1864.
	Sin:	When the Rajppahannock and Georgia are ready for sea, you
will sail directly for the place of rendezvous agreed upon by the com-
mander of the Rajppahannock and yourself, and transfer the armament
and all warlike equipment to the Rappahannock in the shortest possible
time.
	You will also allow such men among the crew of the Georgia who
may wish to enter on board the Rapjpahannock for her cruise to be
transferred to that vessel. After the accomplishment of this duty you
will return to the most convenient port on the continent and report to
me by letter your arrival.
Respectfully, etc.,
S.	BAnno~,
Flag- Officer.
Lieutenant Commanding W. E. EVANS,
C.	S. S. Georgia, Cherbourg, France

Page 811

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRITISERSCONFEDERATE.	811

Abstract log of 0. 8. 8. Georgia, Lieutenant W. L. Kaury commanding, April 9, 1863January
18, 1864.

	April 9, 1863.From 8 to midnight: At 10:45 hoisted the colors and
put the ship in commission; cheered ship, Ushant light bearing E. S. E.
per compass, distant abont 4~ miles. At 12 (midnight) Ushant light
bore per compass S. W., distant abont 12 miles.
	April 10.At 1:30 a. m. lost sight of Isle dOuessant light [Ushant],
bearing per compass S. by E. Latitnde 470 53 N., longitude 60 27 W.
	April 11.Latitude 460 30 N., longitude 90 19 30 W.
	April 12.Latitude 450 56 N., longitude 90 53 30 W.
	April 13.Latitude 450 10 N., longitude 110 39 W.
	April 14.Latitude 440 23 N., longitude 110 31 W.
	April 15.Latitude 420 49 N., longitude 120 3 W.
	April 1G.Latitude 410 10 N., longitude 130 15 W.
	April 17.Latitude 390 8 N., longitude 140 45 30 W.
	April 18.Latitude 370 4 N., longitude 160 32 W.
	April 19.Latitude 350 26 N., longitude 170 38 W.
	April 20.Latitude 300 17 N., [340 30 0?] longitude 18~ 11 W. At
6 p. m. lighted fires, and at 7: 55 proceeded under steam.
	April 21.Latitude 310 35 N., longitude 190 56 W. From 4 to Op. in.:
Exchanged colors with an English ship. Went to quarters at 6 p. m.
and fired two blank cartridges and one shot from each of the guns.
At 9 p. m. slowed down the engines to half speed.
	April 22.At 9 a. m. stopped the engines and banked fires. Made
sail to topgal~lant sails and jib. Latitude 280 43 N., longitude 210 3. W.
	April 23.At 5 a. m. mounted the two Whitworth gnus on the quarter-
deck. At 9 :45 exchanged colors with a brig. Latitude 260 51 30 N.,
longitude 220 23 W.
	April 24.Latitude 27~ 53 30 N., longitude 210 39 W. At 1:45
p. m. passed and exchanged colors with brig Aurora, of Maitland,
Nova Scotia.
	April 25.At daylight made a sail on the starboard quarter. Hauled
up to intercept her. At 7 made her out to be a Dutch bark standing
to the southward and westward; showed English colors to her. From
8 to meridian: Exchanged colors with an English bark. Latitude
250 45 N., longitude 230 15 30 W. Ship in sight. Hoisted English
colors. At 4:15 started ahead in chase of the ship ahead. At 5:10
hauled down the English colors and hoisted our own; the chase hoisted
United States colors. Stopped, lowered a boat, and made a nrize of
the ship Dictator, of New York, laden with coals, bound to Hongkong.
She having a United States register, captured her. From 8 to mid-
night: Hove to about 2 miles from the prize. At 9 p. in. First Lieuten-
ant Evans went on board with a prize crew and took charge. Removed
the officers and crew; confined the latter in double irons. Commenced
transferring provisions, etc.
	April 26.At 6 a. in. commenced again to transport provisions. At
9:30 a sail in sight on port bow. Set fire to and abandoned the prize
and gave chase. Proved to be an English bark. Sail in sight on lee
beam. Gave chase under sail and steam.
	N. B.We, the nudersigned, estimate the value of the prize ship
Dictator, of New york, from Liverpool, bound to llongkong, laden with
coal, together with her equipment, to be $70,000; her cargo to be worth
$16,000.
WM. E. EVANS.
J.	H. INGRAH.4.M

Page 812

812 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	Latitude 25~ 21 N., longitude 22~ 57 W. From meridian to 4 p. in.:
Hoisted English colors; the chase hoisted the Br~men. Hauled down
the English and hoisted our own. The chase proved to be the bark
Bremen, bound to Rio. At 1:30 hauled up to chase another sail. At
2:35 hoisted the English colors to a Hamburg brig.
	April 27.At daylight made two sails standing to the southward
and westward. One proved to be a Brernen bark seen yesterday, the
other the ~Siphoner, of St. John, New Brunswiek. Exchanged colors
with her, hoisting the English ensign. Latitude 23~ 7 N., longitude
240 12 W.
List of men shipped from the Dictator.
John Benson, seaman.	Walter Kroon, coal heaver.
John Williams, seaman.	Antonio Pentz, coal heaver.
John Harty, seaman.	Charles Grinnell, captains steward.
Charles Brown, seaman.	Antonio Bass, captains cook.
John Ahistram, seaman.	Mathew Shean, boy.
William Cullen, seaman.	William Cox, boy.
John Cain, second.class fireman.	Alex. Ellis, coal heaver.
	              R. W. CURTIS,
	       Acting Paymaster, C. S. Navy.

	April 28.At 6 a. m. discovered a sail on port bow; gave chase. At
7:45 chase proved to be a steamer of war. Hauled down English
colors, hoisted our own, and dipped our ensign in return for his salute.
Latitude 190 27 N., longitude 240 44 W. From 4 to 8 p. in.: Chased and
exchanged colors with two English barks.
	April 29.-At 4:45 a. m. made the island at San Antonio, one of the
Cape Verdes. At 5 slowed down the engine, running in for the island
of St. Vincent. At 8:35, when about 3 miles from the harbor of St.
Vincent, discovered a steamer of war belonging to the United States;
braced the yards to windward, and immediately stood out to sea. At
2:40 p. m. stopped the engine and made signal for a fishing boat
to come alongside, to obtain information from them. Started ahead
at 3 p. in., the southwest point of the island bearing per compass
S.byE .~E., distant about 4 miles.
	April 30.Latitude 150 40 N., longitude 26~ 9 W.
	May 1.Latitude 13~ 37 N., longitude 26~ 57 W.
	May 2.Latitude 110 44 N., longitude 270 44 W.
	May 3.Latitude 9038 N., longitude 270 56 W. At 5:30 p. in. went
to quarters; passed an English man-of war standing to the northward
and westward. Out fires.
	May 4.Latitude 70 38 N., longitude 280 27 W.
	May 5.At 10 a. in. hove to and sent a boat on board an English
bark; at 11 boat returned. Latitude 50 48 N., longitade 29~ 4 XV.
	May 6.Latitude 30 41 N., longitude 290 49 W.
	May 7.Latitude 10 28 N., longitude 30~ 2 W.
	May 8.Latitude 30 29 5., longitude 30~ 51 W. From 4 to 6 p. in.
gave chase to a sail. Proved to be the French bark Ganeede, of Bor-
deaux.
	May 9.Latitude 30 29 5., longitude 300 51 W. Passed the Ham-
burg schooner Pallas, standing to the northward, and exchanged colors
with an English topsail schooner.
	May 10.Latitude 60 45 5., longitude 320 13 W.
	May 11.Exchanged colors with a Norway bark. Latitude 100 27 5.,
longitude 330 19 W.
	May 12.~--Exchanged colors with a Swedish bark. Latitude 12~ 44 5.,
longitude 360 32 W. At 10 p. in. light reported bearing per aftGr
compass N. W. by N. At 12 m. light about 3 miles distant

Page 813

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	813

	May is.At 1:30 a. m. came to anchor off Bahia, Brazil. At 8 dis-
covered a steamer of war inshore, which hoisted Confederate colors.
Exchanged private signals with the C. S. S. Alabanw. At 9:30 weighed
anchor and shifted our berth inshore. At 7: 30 p. ni. sent the prisoners
on shore.
	May 14.At anchor off Bahia, Brazil, coaling and taking in supplies
nntil May 22.
	May 15.Sent 528 pounds of powder to the C. S. S. Alabama. Com-
menced coaling from the bark Castor.
	May 22.At 2 p. m. a Brazilian sloop of war flying the broad pen-
nant anchored near the town. At 5:30 p. m. hoisted in all boats and
prepared for sea. At 8:30 started the engines. At 8: 5~ Bahia light
bore E. by N., distant 2 miles.
	May 23.Latitude 130 42 S., longitnde 38~ 10 W.
	May 24.Latitude 13~ 30 S., longitude 360 55 W.
	May 25.Latitude 12~ 30 S., longitude 350 56 W. At 1: 50 started
the engine, chasing a vessel. At 4:30 p. m. exchanged colors with a
Dutch bark.
	May 26.Latitude 130 57 5., longitude 350 46 W.
	May 27.Latitude 160 48 5., longitude 350 43 W.
	May 28.Latitude 180 52 5., longitude 360 43 W. At 2: 30 p. m.
spoke the English ship Georgiana. From 4 to 6 p. in.: In chase of two
vessels on starboard bow. At 10 boarded the English ship ~Sheve
Donard [Donald?] from Liverpool, bound to Calcutta with a cargo of
salt. At 11 boarded the English ship Jessie Beazly, from Liverpool,
bound to llongkong with machinery.
	May 29.Latitude 200 50 5., longitude 390 27 W.
	May 30.From 4 to 8 a. in.: Chasing a sail on lee bow. Spoke the
English [ship ~?] Excelsior. At 11:50 went ahead again under steam
and wore around on the other tack in chase of a sail to the westward.
Exchanged colors with an English bark. Latitude 220 23 5., longi-
tude 38~ 37 W.
	May 31.Latitude 23~ 46 S., longitude 380 45 W. At 10 p. m.
proceeded in chase of a vessel, standing to the northward and eastward.
At 1~ p. m. fired a blank gun to bring the chase to; stopped, boarded
the Norwegian brig Marmi urn, from Santos to Bahia.
	June 1.At 10 a. in. spoke the Lubec brig Nautilus. Latitude 220
10 5., longitude 390 40 W. Exchanged colors with an English bark.
From 6 to 8 p. in. in chase of a sail.
	June 2.Latitude 220 51 5., longitude 400 14 W. At 2:30 p. in.
started the engine in chase of a sail. Proved to be the English bark
Zetus.
	June 3.At daylight got up steam and gave chase to a sail. At 7:40
a. in. chase hove to and showed French colors. From 8 to meridian:
Stopped and sent a boat on board the French ship Chuquisac, thirty-
three days from Havre. Latitude 230 39 5., longitude 400 46 W.
	June 4.Latitude 240 48 5., longitude 400 50 XV.
June 5.Latitude 250 1 S., longitude 420 50 W. Chased and spoke
for B
during the day one English brigantine, from London~ nenos Ayres,
Dutch brig Autze, from Hamburg to Buenos Ayres, fifty-six days out,
and Swedish brigantine Bernadotte.
	June 6.Latitude 24~ 52 5., longitude 42~ 57 W. Gave chase to
and boarded ship Tribune, of St. John, New Brunswick, from Rio de
Janeiro. From 4 to 6 p. in.: In chase of a hermaphrodite brig.
June 7.Latitude 23~ 59 S., longitude 410 52 W

Page 814

814 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	June 8.At 7 a. m. started in chase. At 7:30 made Gape Frio. At
9:15 hoisted our colors and cast loose the guns. The chase hoisted
United States colors. She proved to be the Ge~rge Griswold, of New
York, with a cargo of coal from Cardiff, bound to Rio de Janeiro.
Captured her. Satisfactory evidence having been deduced to show
that she had a cargo belonging to neutrals, released her on a ran-
som bond for $100,000. Captured the ship George Griswold, of New
York, in latitude 23u 10 5., longitude 410 36 W., Cape Frio bearing
N. W. by XV., distant 19 miles. At 12:30 went in chase and at 3
spoke the English brig Tentenjo, from Leghorn to Rio.
	June 9.Latitude 220 30 5., longitude 400 6 W. In chase of a sail;
at 4 sail hoisted English colors. At 4:20 exchanged signals with the
English bark Dusty Miller, of Liverpool.
	June 10.Latitude 220 16 5., longitude 300 8 [4008?] W. At I p. m.
in chase of a sail. Hoisted English colors; the chase also hoisted
English colors. Proved to be the British brig Kanagawa, forty-six
days from New York to Rio.
	June 11.Gave chase to a Brazilian schooner from Bahia to Rio
Grande. Latitude 22~ 12 5., longitude 390 20 W.
	June 12.Latitude 210 56 5., longitude 370 11 W.
	June 13.Latitude 22~ 15 5., longitude 370 1 W. From meridian
to 4 p. m: Fired a blank cartridge, brought to the bark Good H~pe, of
Boston, United States, fifty-two days out, bound for Cape of Good
Hope. Captured her. The prize was valued at $20,000 and her car -o
at $45,000. Latitude 220 46 5., longitude 360 38 W. From 4 g
to 6
p.	m. lying t~ near the prize, receiving provisions and stores from her.
From 6 to 8 lying near the prize. Confined eight of the crew in single
irons.
	June 14.At 11 a. m. set fire to prize and abandoned her. At 11:20
started in pursuit of a bark. Latitude 22~ 49 5., longitude 360 49 W.
At 1:15 called all hands to bury the dead. The burial service was
read over the remains of Captain Gordon, of the prize bark Good Hope,
and his body committed to the deep. At 4:25 p. m. captured the bark
S. W. Leaver [J. W. Seaver], from Boston for the Amoor River, loaded
with machinery for the Russian Government, valued at $3,000, and
other articles belonging to the enemy. Was permitted to proceed on
voyage on release bond of $30,000. Paroled prisoners captured on bark
Good Hope and sent them on board the S. W. Leaver [J. W. Seaver].
	June 15.Latitude 220 47 5., longitude 36~ XV. At 2:25 p. m. spoke
a French brig from Bordeaux to Buenos Ayres.
	June 16.Latitude 220 14 5., longitude 340 20 W.
	June 17.Latitude 210 24 5., longitude 310 52 W.
	June 18.At daylight made land one point on starboard bow. At
2:30 steamed in near Trinidad Island and anchored.
	June 1924.At anchor at the island of Trinidad.
	June 25.At 9:45 a. m. got underway and steamed in chase; fired a
blank cartridge and two shot. At 10:40 boarded and captured ship
Gonstitution, of New York, from Philadelphia forty-eight days, bound
to Shanghai with a cargo of coal. Ordered her to run in and anchor
off the monument, Trinidad. At 4:15 anchored near the former anchor-
age. At 5:30 sent First Lieutenant Evans and prize crew of eight men
on board the prize.
	June 2G.At 8:30 a. m. in chase of a Dutch bark. She proved to be
the Gatherina Maria, forty days from Rotterdam, bound to Batavia.
Steamed back to our anchorage; coaling from prize

Page 815

	OPERATIONS OP THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	815

	June 27.lloisted our colors at half-mast on hearing of the death of
Major-General T. J. Jackson, C. S. Army.
	June 28.At 8:30 a. m. started in chase of a s~il standing to south-
ward and westward. At 9 :40,monnment (Trinidad) bearing N. W. per
compass, distant about 10 miles, boarded and captured ship City of
Bath, of Maine, United States. Ordered her to stand in for the monu-
ment. At 3:30 p. m. brought creweof prize on board. At 5:30 trans-
ferred crew of Constitution to the City of Bath; released City of Bath
on bond for $40,000.
	June 29.At 4:30 p. m. started in chase of a bark. Exchanged col-
ors and was saluted by the bark Eclectic, of Liverpool. Stood back to
anchorage.
List of men shipped from Constitution.
John Peterson, seaman.	James Dunovan, seaman.
Francis Gray, seaman.	Joseph Brown, seaman.
Thomas Robinson, seaman.	John SchmiJ, seaman.

	June 30.8 to meridian, employed taking provisions from Constitu-
tion to City of Bath. (Joaliug ship from prize Constitution until July 7.
	July 8.At 10:30 hoisted in boats and got ready for sea. At 1:40
p. m. weighed anchor, exercised crew at quarters, firing shot and shell
at prize Constitution. Set fire to prize and cast her adrift. Yalue of
ship, $30,000; cargo, $10,270.
	July 9.Latitude 210 32 5., longitude 290 38 W.
	July 10.Latitude 220 10 5., longitude 29~ 47 W. Chased and spoke
the British bark Christobel.
	July 11.At [12] :40 a. ni. spoke the bark Diamond, forty-nine days
from Glasgow, bound to the Cape of Good Hope. Latitude 23~ 4 S.,
longitude 29~ 57 W. At 3:10 p. in. overhauled and spoke the British
[ship?] Kent, of London, from Melbourne, bound to London.
	July 12.Latitude 230 36 5., longitude 29~ 53 W.
	July 13.Latitude 240 8 5., longitude 29~ 27 W. At 4:50 p. in.
spoke the English ship Factory Girl, from Yalparaiso for Qucenstown.
	July 14.Latitude 240 18 5., longitude 29~ 33 W.
	July 15.Latitude 24~ 26 5., longitude 290 40 W.
	July 16.From 8 to meridian: Spoke the Norwegian brig Capricorn..
At 11:55 boarded and captured the ship Prince of 1 Vales, of Bath, Me.,
United States. Released prize on bond for $40,000. Latitude 24~ 14
S., longitude 28~ 1 W.
	July 17.Latitude 240 10 5., longitude 260 6 W.
	July 18.Latitude 24~ 2 5., longitude 26~ 9 W.
July 19.Latitude 240 14 5., longitude 260 20 W.
	July 20.Latitude 250 17 5., longitude 260 2 W.
	July 21.Latitude 260 22 5., longitude 26~ 5 W.
	July 22.Latitude 270 17 5., longitude 26~ 7 W.
	July 23.Latitude 27~ 57 5., longitude 260 12 W.
	July 24.Latitude 280 33 5., longitude 260 17 W.
	July 25.Latitude 290 17 5., longitude 25~ 12 W. From meridian
to 4 p. m: Boarded the Austrian bark Trieste, forty-nine days from
Trieste; no news.
	July 26.At 10:30 a. m. boarded the baik Barricks, of London, from
Newcastle, sixty days out, and bound to the Isle of France. Latitude
290 41 5., longitude 230 34 W.
	July 27.Latitude 30~ 50 5., longitude 21~ 46 W.
	July 28.Latitude 310 48 5., longitude 19~ 54 W. At 5:35 fired two
blank cartridges to bring to the chase. At 5:50 boarded the Hamburg
barkentine Clipper, forty-eight days from Hamburg, bound to Hongkong

Page 816

816 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATh

	July 29.Latitude 320 40 S., longitude 18~ 18 W.
	July 30.Latitude 330 22 S., longitude 150 45 W.
	July 31.Latitude 330 35 S., longitude 140 22W.
	August 1.Latitude 330 27 S., longitude 120 38 W.
	August 2.Latitude 330 39 S., longitude 110 37 W.
	August 3.Latitude 330 58 S., lon gitude90l6W.
	August 4.Latitude 340 19 S., longitude 60 27 W.
	August 5.Latitude 340 21 S., longitude 30 47 W.
	August 6.Latitude 340 21 S., longitude 31 W.
	August 7.Latitude 340 5 S., longitude 1~ 47 E.
	August 8.Latitude 340 5 S., longitude 40 36 E.
	Augitst 9.Latitude 340 46 S., longitude ~ 7 E.
	August 10.Latitude 340 35 5., longitude 90 40 E.
	August 11.Latitude 340 19 5., longitude 110 14 E.
	August 12.Latitude 330 45 S., longitude 140 58 E.
	August 13.Latitude 330 45 S., longitude 170 50 E. At 3:40 p. m.~
stopped and boarded the English bark Chieftain.
	August 14.At 11 spoke au English brig. Latitude 340 37 S., longi-
tude 180 19 E. From meridian to 4p. in.: Chased the English ship Rhea~
Silria, British bark (Jorca, and Hamburg bark &#38; tid-illad- /gchid.
	August 15.Latitude 340 18 S., longitude 180 4 E. At 12:15 p. m.
gave chase; at 1:15 spoke a ship from Colombo, and started in chase
of another. At 2:30 made land bearing per compass E. N. E. At 4
Table Mountain bore E. The chase proved to be the Hamburg bark
Said-Jfad-8chid. Went in chase of another sail. Proved to be the
British ship,ilf lying ASpur.
	August 1G.At 6:30 a. m. made the Cape of Good Hope ahead.
At 11:15 a. in. moored ship in Simons Bay.
	August 1725.Coaling, repairing, and provisioning in Simons Bay.
August 26.At anchor, Simons Bay. Second Assistant Engineer
Robert Smith resigned from the C. S. Navy.
	August 28.H. M. S. Himalaya came to anchor in the harbor.
	August 29.From 6 to 8 p. in.: Steam up, weighed anchor, and pro.
ceeded out of the harbor. Passed Midshipman Walker received promo.
tion to acting master from the captain.
	August 30.At 4 a. m. cape light bore per compass N. by W., distant
about 20 miles. At 9 went in chase of a sail. At 10:15 exchanged col-
ors with English ship Euphrate8. At 12:5 p. m. exchanged colors
with the English ship Manchester, and at 1 with the English ship Chal-
lenger. At 8 p. m. light [bore] E. N. E. From 8 to midnight boarded
and captured ship John Watts, from Mauhnaiu for Falmouth.
	August 31.The ship John Watts was captured in latitude 340 3 5.,
longitude 180 6 E. At 3:10 a. m. bonded the ship John Watts for
$30,000.
	September 1.[Latitade and longitude not noted.]
	September 2.Latitude 300 9 5., longitude 140 29 E.
	September 3.Latitude 280 51 5., longitude 120 41 E.
	September 4.Latitude 270 16 5., longitude 100 19 E.
September5.Latitude 25~ 50 5., longitude 90 4 E.
	September 6.Latitude 240 20 5., longitude 70 40 E.
	September 7.Latitude 220 28 5., longitude 6~ 1 E.
	September 8.[Latitude and longitade not noted.]
	September 9.Latitude 190 20 5., longitude 40 11 E.
	September 10.Latitude 17~ 51 5., longitude 50 18 E.
	September 11.Latitude 15~ 51 5., longitude 48 E [sic].
	September 12.Latitude 140 51 5., longitude 4 W

Page 817

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	8t7

	Sejptember 13.Latitude 130 21 S., longitude 10 7 W.
	September 14.Latitude 12~ 8 S., longitude 20 2 W.
	September 15.Latitude 90 49 5., longitude 30 ~0 W.
	September 16.Latitude 90 56 S., longitude 30 50 W.
	September 17.Latitude 90 1 S., longitude 40 40 W.
	September 18.Latitude 80 12 S., longitude 50 26 W.
	September 19.Latitude 70 26 S., longitude 6~ 8 W.
	September 20.Latitude 6~ 11 S., longitude 60 39 W.
	September 21.Latitude 50 34 5.~ longitade 70 23 W.
	September 22.Latitude 40 42 S., longitude 60 37 W.
	September 23.Latitude 3054 S.~ longitude 90 6 W.
	September 24.Latitude 30 6 S., longitude 90 58 W.
	September 25.Latitude 20 14 5., longitude 100 51 W.
	September 26.Latitude 45 S., longitude 110 52 W.
	September 27.Latitude 45 S., longitude 11~ 52 W.
	September 28.Latitude 19 N., longitude 120 12 W.
	September 29.Latitude 45 S. [N. 0?], longitude 110 52 W~
	September 30.Latitude 20 7 N., longitude 120 56 W.
	October 1.Latitude 30 15 N., longitude 130 30 W.
	October 2.Latitude 40 21 N., longitude 14~ 34 W.
	October 3.Latitude 50 20 N., longitude 140 50 W.
	October 4.Latitude 70 12 N., longitude 150 30 W. At 12: 45 p. m.
stopped the engine and sent a boat on board the schooner Bem ]IfcGree,
of and from Liverpool. At 1: 05 hoisted up the boat and started in
chase of another sail. At 4:15 exchanged colors with an English
schooner.
	October 5.Latitude 90 32 N., longitude 160 46 W.
	October 6.Latitude 120 2 N., longitude 17~ 46 W.
	October 7.Latitude 140 5 N., longitude 18~ 14 W.
	October 8.Latitude 160 29 N., longitude 18~ 26 W.
	October 9.Latitude 180 30 N., longitude 190 13 W. At 1:50 p.m~
exchanged colors with a Spanish brig. Boarded and captured the ship
Bold Hunter, of Boston, from [Dundeel for [Calcutta]. From 4 to 6
p. in.: Hove to to leeward of the prize, taking the crew and their clothes
on board. At 5:45 a boat with l)art of the crew came on board and
were put in irons.
	October 10.Employed receiving provisions from the prize. Collision
with the prize. One boat davit and part of the poop rail [damaged].
Latitude 18~ 57 N., longitude 190 40. W. At 12:50 p. in. set fire to the
prize.
October 11.Latitude 210 11 N., longitude 190 47 W.
October 12.Latitude 230 39 N., longitude 190 W.
	October 13.At 10 a. in. spoke the French brig LJiitoite, from Mar-
seilles eighteen days, bound to Mozambique. Latitude 250 18 N., lon-
gitude 18~ 1 W. At 2:30 spoke the Montevideo bark Foreuzo. At 4:20
p. m. gave chase to two sails. At 5 steamed ahead full speed in chase
of a schooner under Spanish colors. At 5:40 fired a gun and brought
her to. At 5:50 sent a boat to the schooner with first lieutenant.
	October 14.At 7:45 a. m. made Teneriffe, the peak bearing N. E. by
E.	Latitude 270 29 N., longitude 160 50 W.
	October 15.At 7:45 a. in. came to anchor in the harbor of Santa Cruz,
Teneriffe.
	October 17.Lauded prisoners.
	October 18.At 10:15 a. in. weighed anchor and proceeded nuder
steam.
N W RVOL ii5

Page 818

818 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

	October 19.Latitude 310 7 K., longitude 140 55 W
	October 20.At 6:50 a. m. spoke the ship Rattler, three days from
Gibraltar, bound to Sumatra. At 10:40 a sail re~orted; proved to be
the Patrte, from Cadiz to Buenos Ayres, fourteen days. Latitude
330 43 K., longitude 130 44 W. At 12:45 p. m. stopped, sent two
boats alongside the Patrie, which were indignantly refused admittance
on board. At 1:15 fired one blank and two shotted guns across her
bow and brought her to; sent a boat on board at 2 went on. At 9:15
p. m. went in chase of a vessel on starboard quarter; fired a gun to
bring her to. Boarded the Austrian brig Tofala [Toala ?], from Gib-
raltar to Kew York, four days. At 11:20 p. m. went on.
	October 21.Latitude 360 18 K., longitude 130 17 W. At 12:45 p. m.
boarded the bark IJistrella, four days from Lisbon, bound to Rio de
Janeiro.
	October 22.Latitude 3~0 7 K., longitude 120 50 W.
	October 23.At 7:40 a. m. boarded a Spanish brig. Spoke Danish
brig Dorothea and ship Ascencion, from Cadiz, and an Austrian bark.
Latitude 41~ 27 K., longitude 110 41 W. Continually chasing and
boarding vessels. Spoke tho bark Percy, of Kew Castle, for Cadiz, and
sent a surgeon on board at the captains request. At 3:30 spoke and
boarded the schooner Ellen Wyley, from Kew Castle. At 4:20 stopped
and boarded a Russian bark and an English schooner. At 6:15
boarded an English brig from Cardiff bound to Palermo. At 11:30 p. m.
spoke a brig thirty-four days from London.
	October 24.From 4 to 8 a. in.: Exchanged colors with a Spanish, an
English, and a ilanoverian vessel. At 8:15 a. m. passed English bark
IJuba. Exchanged colors with brigantine fJrystal, of Poole. Exchanged
colors with a Spanish brig. Latitude 430 13 K., longitude 100 47 W.
At 12 chasing a vessel ahead. At 4p. m. spoke the brig Nevey Gillespie,
of Blyth. At 5:15 spoke the schooner Dilegente, of Cherbourg, from
Danzig to Algiers; supplied her with seven bags of bread and one of
beef.
	October 25.From 4 to 8 a. in.: Boarded the bark Garonne, of Bor-
deaux. Latitude 450 29, longitude 90 At 12:45 p. m. exchanged
colors with an Austrian bark. At 1:30 boarded the steamer Bragauza.
At2 :45 exchanged colors with the English bark Cuba. At 4 exchanged
colors with schooner Emile, from Bayonne. At 6:30 spoke the Mary
Ansi. At 7 spoke an English schooner.
	October 2G.At 7:50 started in chase of a vessel to the eastward.
Exchanged colors with a Dutch schooner. Latitude 470 38 K., longi-
tude 6040 W. At 7 boarded the Norwegian brig ]Jffedea, from Lorient.
	October 27.Latitude 490 32 K., longitude 3019/W. A~t S:20p.m.
made the Caskett light, bearing E. S. E.; at 7:30 Cape hague light,
bearing S. S. W., distant about 15 miles.
	October 28.At 2:15 game to anch~r in Cherbourg Harbor.
	October 31.Acting Boatswain J. E. Maitman, Acting Gunner Kay-
br, a~nd Acting Third Assistant Engineer Hannah have this day
resigned from the naval service of th; Confederate States of America.
	November 7.Nt 8 a. m. hoisted the new national ensign adopted by
the Congress of the Confederated States of America.
	January 18, 1864.Still lying in the harbor of Cherbourg

Page 819

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	819

Correspondence respecting the proposed cruise of C. S. S. Rappahannock.

Instructions from Flag-Officer Barron, C. S. Navy, to Lieutex~nt Campbell, C. S. Navy, com-
manding C. S. S. Rappahannock, regarding the proposed operations of that vesseL

PARIS, January 28, 1864.
	SIR: When the Rappahannock is ready for sea, you will sail directly
for the place of rendezvous agreed upon by the commander of the
Georgia and yourself; and after receiving on board the armament,
munitions, etc., you will proceed to cruise against the enemys com-
merce.
	It is not deemed advisable to too rigidly prescribe your cruising
ground, but you are recommended to cover a large field of action, in
the beginning to sight the Western Islands, looking after whalers that
may be there, thence making for the equator, crossing it between lon-
gitude 200 and 290, with the hope of. intercepting vessels on their home-
ward passage from the East Indies and California. About the month
of April it would be advisable, if circumstances permit, for you to make
a dash at the enemy~5 commerce on the New England coast, taking
care not to be caught too close inshore with a short allowance of fuel.
	Your position is an important one, not only with reference to the
immediate results to the enemys property, but from the fact that neu-
tral rights may frequently arise under it; reliance, however, is placed in
your judgment and discretion for meeting and promptly disposing of
such questions.
	Since the sailing of the Sumter on her very successful cruise, Federal
owners of ships and cargoes have adopted the practice of placing them
under British protection, and this may at times cause you embarrass-
ment. The strictest regard for the rights of neutrals can not be too
sedulously observed, nor should any opportunity be lost in cultivating
friendly relations with their naval and merchant services and of plac-
ing the character of the contest in which we are engaged in its proper
light.
	You will not hesitate to assume responsibility whenever the interests
of your country demand it, and should your judgment ever hesitate in
seeking the solution of any difficulty, it may be aided by the refl&#38; ction
that you are to do the enemys property the greatest injury in the
shortest time.
	Authority is vested in you to make acting appointments to fill any
vacancies that may occur.
	You will communicate with your Government as frequently as pos-
sible, through any safe channel that may offer, always taking care to
use the cipher agreed upon in any word that might betray what you
desire to conceal.
	The maintenance of strict naval discipline will be essential to your
success, and you will enjoin this upon your officers and enforce its
rigid observance, always tempering justice with humane and kind
treatment.
I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
S.	BARRON,
Flag-Officer.
Lieutenant Commanding W. P. A. CAMirnELL,
C.	S. S. Rappahannock, Calais, France

Page 820

820 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERS~C~NFEDERATE.

Report of Lieutenant Fauntleroy; C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Bappahannock, regarding
the req~iirexaents and defects of that vesseL

C.	S. S. IRAPPAHANNOOK,
Galats, March 22, 1864.
	Sin: Lieutenant Grimball has delivered his papers, and I have coin-
municated briefly with Bulloch through him in regard to them. It is
altogether advisable that Bulloch should come here, as I cant get to
him, and I have so advised him to do. I think it especially fortunate
that we are to be indulged with farther detention, for really there is so
little done, with so inuch.to do before the ship ought to go anywhere,
that we are decidedly favored by the course adoptedthat is, if they
intend us to go at all.
	The ship needs calking, with much reparation in various ways. It
appears that this work was going on, b~it was discontinued from some
cause unexplained. I have recommended and shall push matters with
all diligence as far as the time will allow. You may rest assured that
when the order comes for me to go I shall go, for, though the crew may
all leave, I shall yet have officers sufficient left to work the vessel out
of this at any rate. There are too many officers and idlers in the ship.
Sinclairs acting boatswain is partially deranged, and I shall h~ive to
leave him at all events, and you must not be surprised if, when I meet with
the guns and additional men, I should send back some others, which I
should do merely to make more room and the vessel more comfortable
and efficient.
	There is no longer any secret, to my mind, for the English in dispos.
ing of the vessel. It is fully explained by the vast amount of space
occupied by her machinery, to the detriment of her storage, both for
provisions, coals, and crew. The magazine is almost the largest apart-
ment in the ship, and there is very little space for either crew or pro-
visionsfor the latter absolutely next tc no space at all. Everything
is filled up with bread and stores, with a large amount of wet provisions
on deck, so that when the guns and ordnance stores come there will be
nothing left for it but to put much of what we have ashore or into
the sea.
	The ship has only one patched suit of sails bent, with no spare spars
or sails, or any place ~or the latter if she had them. From further
observation I am convinced that the daily grounding of the vessel by
the ebbing of all the water from the basin will prove detrimental, if
indeed the ship is not hogged completely thereby.
	The interior arrangements of the ship are altogether experimental,
and it is quite obvious why she was deemed to be a failure as a cruiser.
At furthest she could only carry four days coal for full steaming, and
not more than from twenty-five to thirty days provisions.
	I state these facts for a correct understanding of her capacity, for I
am satisfied that if a board of officers were ordered now to report or
had looked into the vessel earlier she would never have been on our
hands to-day.
	Her sailing capacity must be small, as her masts are very low and no
great spread to the sails.
	NotwiI~hstanding all this, I beg you to understand that I am both
anxious and ambitious to do my utmost in getting the ship out, though
my highest purpose is to serve the cause first and myself and ambition
last of all. I beg to repeat that a cruising fund is quite as necessary
as any and all else needed beside. With money she may do something
in time, but I do not wish to place myself in a perfectly helpless case
by sailing hence without it

Page 821

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	821


	I will arrange with Btilloch as to rendezvous, etc. In the meantime
I be~ to say that if the coals are to be replaced aboard it can not be
doiie on one high tide, and I can not be res~xnsible for the conse-
quences which may ensue with so much additional weight on deck when
gro~ nding.
	Would it not be advisable to apply to go to Cherbonrg, or at any rate
to make a point in regard to the situation of the vessel by the action of
the authorities here?
I am, very respectfully,	Cn. A. FAUNTLEROY,

Lieutenant, Commanding, C. ~. Navy.
	Flag-Officer SAMUEL BARRoN, C~ S. Navy,
Paris.



Letter from Lieutenant Fauntleroy, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Rappahannock, to Flag-
Officer Barron, C. S. Navy, regarding requisitions for stores for that vesseL

C.	S. S. IRAPPAIIANNOCK,
-	Calais, March 26, 1864.
	SIR: I send the enclosed requisitions of the paymaster for articles
which will be essential for the use of this ships company, made upon
Commanders North and Sinclair, with the knowledge that one or the
other of them has already purchased said stores and would be willing
to turn them over upon requisition. I have received a letter from Bul-
loch stating the impossibility of his coming here, and asking me to
meet him in Paris on Sunday; but this is out of the question, as mat-
ters now stand. I must remain where I am to meet arrangements made
for en gineers that are to be here on Sunday or Monday. This is all
important, for if we do not get some others it will be quite impossible
to take the ship away at all. One hours conversation with Bulloch on
the spot would suffice, and do more toward accomplishing the ends in
view than a dozen letters. It is a pity he will not come here before
going to Paris.
Yery respectfully, etc.,
CHAS. A. FAUNTLEROY,
Lieutenant, Commanding.
	[Flag-Officer S. BARRON, C. S. Navy.~



Letter from Lieutenant Fauntleroy, C. S. Navy, commanding the C. S. S. Rappahannook.

[C. S. S.~ RAPPAHANNOCK,
Calais, March 27, 1864.
	M~ DEAn Sm: The enclosed is a copy of a letter* which I have felt
constrained to write from the character of the offense and the system-
atic way in which all the operations of the vessel are interfered with
by the openly avowed agents of the Yankees here. I would be glad
to have them retained, unless you should conclude it necessary for me
to come to Paris to-morrow, in which case I shall look for a telegram
to that effect, in order that I may be able to take the midday express
train down.

Not found

Page 822

822 OPERATIONS OF TIIE CRU~ERSCONFEDERATE.

	I am in treaty for engineers, etc., and it is absolutely necessary, for
some other reasons, why I should remain here to-day. I am truly glad
that the Georgia has arrived. If this Government~is not decidedly
hostile we can have some time to arrange for a meeting.
	With regard to my sending the officers ashore to make arrests, I
have only to say that the police had authorized it before I arrived,
and they have since sent their force to point out men absent, but have
[refused] and still refuse to lend any farther assistance in such cases.
Very respectfully,
	OHS. M. FAUNTLEROY,
	Commodore ~. BARI~O~,	Lieutenant, Commanding.
30 Rue Drouot.


Report of Lieutensnt Pauntleroy, C. S. Navy, commanding C. S. S. Rappahannoek.

C.	S. S. RAPPAITANNOCK,
Calais, March 27, 1864 (?).]
	DEAR SIR: The official letter is written with the view of its being
read to the minister of marine. I think that no fear need be appre-
hended on the score of its hastening our departure; on the contrary,
after viewing the case maturely, I believe it to be eminently judicious
to lay the letter before the authorities wifhout any delay.
	The two passed midshipmen having been promoted, it is not possible
to keep them both in the wardroom, so that I request permission to
detach Mr. Telfitir, the junior master, at once.
	I see by the list of articles which the Georgia had on board at the
date of her sailing last that most of the things which we should require
are there to be had.
	I must have a personal interview with Evans to fix the rendezvous.
I am receiving and losing men daily. The Yankee emissaries have
done their work pretty effectually, but, upon the whole, if I have a
little more time allowed, I shall beat them. It appears to be understood
here that the most open of the party have been ordered to leave and
have done so.
	I have not exaggerated my fears with regard to the vessel; she is
stretching out and opening most decidedly.
Very truly,
	OHS. M. FAUNTLEROY.
	Commodore BARRON.



Johnsons Island expedition.

Letter from Lieutenant Minor, C. S. Navy, to Admiral Euchanan, C. S. Navy, giving detailed
account of the expedition for the relief of Confederate prisoners on 3ohnsons Island, Lake
Erie, in the fall of 1863.

KAVAL ORDNANCE WORKS
Richmond, Va., February
2, 1864.
	M~ DEAR SIR: Enclosed I send you the express companys receipt
for a package of cloth, forwarded several days since to your address at
Mobile. Before leaving the Confederacy in October last I wrote to say
good-bye, and with the hope that before my return you would have heard
of our success abroad, but the fortunes of war were against us, and al

Page 823

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	823

the consolation we have is the consciousness that we did our best, and
that our efforts have been appreciated. You will pardon the prosy story
I am about to tell you of our expedition, but as it ~yere one designed to
do much good to our poor fellows at the North, and through their release
to be of great benefit to our country, I have thought that it would be
interesting to you to know something of its details.
	Early in February of last year Lieutenant William II. Murdaugh, of
the Navy, conceived the plan of a raid on the Northern Lakes, based
on the capture by surprise of the U. S. S. Michigan, the only man-of war
on those waters, and on m entioniug his views to Lieutenant Robert R.
Carter and myself I need not tell you how cordially we entered into
them, and endeavored by every means in our power to carry them into
execution; but it was only after repeated efforts that the Government
was induced to take any active part iu promoting the expedition, though
Mr. Mallory, the Secretary of the Navy, was in favor of it from the
inception of the plan, but money, or rather the want of it, seemed to be
the cause of delay, which, however, being eventually provided to the
amount of $25,000, we, together with Lienten ant Walter IR. Butt, one
of our wardroom mess on board the old Merrimack, were at last ordered
to hold ourselves in readiness to proceed on the duty assigned us, when
suddenly the order was changed, it having been decided in Cabinet
council that our operations on the lakes might embarrass our relations
with England, and thus prevent the completiou of the ironclad and other
vessels building for us in the private shipyards of that country. So
the plan was foiled at the last moment, and, as we learned, by order of
his Excellen~cy President Davis, who was apprehensive on the score of
foreign complications. With the expedition nnus broken up, Murdaugh,
disheartened, sought other duty, and he, Carter, and Butt were ordered
abroad, leaving me here on my regular ordnance duty, as the only rep-
resentative of a scheme whose prospects were so inviting and so brilliant.
Late in the spring, I believe it was, that our enemies made Johnsons
Island, in the Bayof Sandusky, Ohio, a depot for our officers, their pris-
oners and after the surrender of the Post of Arkansas, Yicksburg, and
Port Hudson, some 1,500 or 2,000 were imprisoned there, whom it became
an object to release, as the balance was, and still is,-strongly against us.
With this view I found myself one day in August last closeted with Mr.
Seddon, Secretary of War, and Mr. Mallory, who asked me to give my
views on the contents of a letter, a part of which Mr. Seddon read to
me, containing a proposition for the release of our poor fellows.
	As a cruise on the lakes in the ]Vliichigan and the destruction of the
enemy~s very valuable commerce has been my study for mouths past, I
assented at once to the plan, and remarked that I need not inform
you, gentlemen, how much pleasure it would give me to be engaged
upon such duty. Well, sir, nearly a month of precious time passed
away without my hearing another word on the subject, when one day I
was sent for by Mr. Mallory, who told me to organize the expedition,
select the officers, make all the necessary l)reparations, and them~con-
chided by offering me the command of it, which, however, I waived in
favor of my friend John Wilkinson (who was in a manner somewhat
committed to the plan by the letter which I have mentioned as being
shown to me by Mr. Seddon, the Secretary of War), with this proviso,
however, that pn our arrival in Canada, in the event of adopting two
lines of operations, hi was to have one of them as my command.
	As soon as it was definitely settled that the expedition was to go (for
the President said it was better to fail than not to make the attempt,
as it had been vaguely talked of in Montreal), our preparations wer

Page 824

824 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

made. Thirty-five thousand dollars in gold, or its equivalent, was
placed at our disposal by the Navy Department, a d a cargo of cotton
which was subsequently sold at Halifax for $76,000 (gold) by the War
Departmentin all, some $111,000 in gold, as the sinews of the expe-
dition. The officers selected were John Wilkinson, lieutenant command-
ing, myself, Lieutenant B. P. Loyall, Lieutenant A. G. Hudgins, Lieu-
tenant G. W. Gift, Lieutenant J. M. Gardner, Lieutenant B. P. [F. M.]
lioby, Lieutenant M. P. Goodwyn, Lieutenaiit Otey Bradford, Acting
Master W. B. Ball (colonel of Fifteenth Virginia Cavalry), Acting Mas-
ter William Finney; Acting Master [H.] W. Perrin; Lieutenant Patrick
McCarrick, Acting Masterilenry Wilkinson, Chief Engineer [J.] CharThs
Schroeder, First Assistant Engineer II. X. Wright, Second Assistant
Engineer Tucker, Assistant Paymaster [P. M.] DeLeon, Assistant Sur-
geon [William] Sheppardson, Gunners Gormley and Waters, John
Tabb, and a man named Leggett, who subsequently left us at halifax.
Of course our plan was kept secret, only Wilkinson, Loyall, and myself
knowing its objects, and we did not attempt to contradict the report
that we were going to England, where many of the officers and our
friends on shore supposed we were bound.
	The party consisted of twenty-two all told, and on the 7th of October
we left Smitliville, N. C., on the Cape Fear River, in the blockade steamer
B. B. Lee, with Wilkinson in command, and after successfully running
the gantlet of the blockading squadron of river vessels (not, however,
without getting a shell in our starboard bulwarks, which exploded on
board, set the cotton on fire, wounded three men, and broke a small
hoisting engii~e into smithereens), we arrived at halifax, Nova Scotia,
where our arrival was at once telegraphed all over the country as being
en route for England. Dividing the party, we left Halifax as soon as
possible, taking two routes for Canada, one via St. John, New Bruns-
wick, and thence up through the province via Fredericton and Grand
Falls to Rivi~re dn Loup, on the St. Lawrence, to Quebec and Montreal,
and the other via Picton, through the Northumberland Strait to Bay
of Chaleurs, via Gasp6, up the St. Lawrence to Quebec, and thence by
railroad to Montreal, where we all met under assumed names about
the 21st of October.
	As it was of vital importance that the utmost secrecy should be
observed, the officers were directed to take lodgings iu quiet private
boarding houses, to avoid the hotels, iiot to recognize each other on the
street, and not to be absent from their roOms for more than half an hour
at a time. Finding Marshal Kane and some of our friends in Montreal,
we set to work to prepare and perfect our arrangements, the first object of
the plan being to communicate with the prisoners ou Johnsons Island,
informing them that an attempt would be made to release them. This
was effected through a lady from Baltimore, a Mrs. P. C. Martin, then
residing with herhusband andfamilyiu Montreal, and whose husband did
all in his power to aid us in every way. She brought a letter from Bal-
timore, which General [J. J.] Archer (who, with Major-General [I. IL]
Trimble, was a prisoner at Johnsons Island) had sent there to Beverly
Saunders, esq., telling us to communicate with him through the per-
sonal columns of the New York Herald, which Wilkinson very promptly
did, telling A. J. L. W. that his solicitude was fully appreciated, and that
a few nights after the 4th of November a carriage would be at the door,
when all seeming obstacles would be removed, and to be ready. The
obstacles alluded to were the U. S. S. Michiycua~ and the prison guard.
Our original plan was to go on board one of the lake steamers at Wind-
sor, opposite Detroit, as passengers, and when fairly out on the lake t

Page 825

	OPERATIONS OF TIlE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	825

play the old St. Nicholas game, and by rising on the officers and crew
take possession and run her to Johnsons Island trusting to the pris-
oners to overpower the guard, while we would be ieady to receive them
on board for transportation to the Canada shore but find ing that the
steamers seldom and at irregular intervals stopped at Windsor, or at
any point on the Canada side, we changed the plan at the suggestion
of a Canadian named McCuaig, who was introduced to Kane by Mr.
Hale, of Tennessee, as a good and reliable Southern sympathizer,
engaged in running the blockade, and occupying a high commercial
position in Canada. He entered into our views with enthusiasm, and
~ve believe that up to the last moment he was heart and soul with us;
but more of him directly. A reliable man was sent to Sandusky to
ascertain the strength of the garrison, position of the guns, etc., and on
his return we were delighted to hear that the U. S. S. Michigan, under
Jack Carter, was lying at anchor about 200 yards from the island, with
her guns (having six reported as mounted) bearing upon the prison;
that there were but 400 troops on the island, and no artillery save two
small howitzers, one of which was upon a ferryboat plying between
the island and the city. Two small 9-pounders were quietly purchased;
Colt furnished us with 100 navy revolvers, with an ample supply
of pistol ammunition, of course through several indirect channels.
Dumb-bells were substituted for cannon balls, as it would have excited
suspicion to have asked for such an article in Montreal; powder, bul-
lets, slugs, butcher knives in lieu of cutlasses, and grapuels were
obtained, and all preparations made to arm the escaped Confederate
officers and .soldiers, who, to the number of 180, we were promised could
be induced to act with us in any way to benefit our cause ; but when
the time came for them to come forward only 32 volunteered, and with
our party thus augmented to 54 we determined to make the attempt
on the Michigan on the following plan: From Ogdensburg, in New York,
there is a line of screw steamers plying to Chicago in the grain and
provision trade, and as they return nearly empty to Chicago, and some-
times carry the Adams Express Companys safe, we decided to take
deck passage on board one of them as mechanics and laborers bound
to Chicago to work on the city waterworks there, and with this view
one of our clever privates, named Connelly, was sent over to Ogdens-
burg, who paid the passage money for 25 of us in advance, to be taken
on board at some point on the Welland Canal, and while doing so he
made an agreement to take as many more laborers as he could obtain,
their passage being fixed at the same price, to which the New Yorker
consented, and gave him the ticket to show to the captain of the boat.
We were then to assemble at St. Catharines, on the canal, go on board
the steamer (one of our men, apparently entirely unconnected with us,
having charge of the guns, powder, pistols, etc., boxed up in casks,
boxes, etc., and marked Machinery, Chicago, going on board the same
steamer with us), and when fairly out in Lake Erie, and well clear of
British jurisdiction, we were to rise on the officers and crew, overpower
them, seize the steamer, mount our two 9-pounders, arm the men, secure
the prisoners, and push on for Sandusky, timing our arrival so as to
reach the Michigan about daylight, collide with her, as if by accident,
board and carry her by the cutlass and pistol, and then with her guns,
loaded with grape and canister, trained on the prison headquarters,
send a boat on shore to demand an unconditional surrender of the
island, with its prisoners, garrison, material of war, etc., upon penalty of
being fired into and the prisoners being released without restraint upo

Page 826

826 OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.

their actions. Major [W. S.] Pierson, the commanding officer, is said to
be a humane man, and seeing the disadvantage at which we would have
him, with the prisoners by this time clamorous ftr their release, he
would have been compelled to surrender, and with the half dozen steam-
ers at the wharf in Sandusky we could have speedily landed the whole
2,000 prisoners on the Canada shore, distant omily some 40 miles; and
then with the 1ifichiyau under our comniand, and she the only man-of-
war on the lakes, with a crew composed of our 54 amid some 50 others
of such men as the Berkleys, iRandolphs, Paynes, and others among the
prisoners, we would have had the lake shore from Sandusky to Buffalo
at our mercy, with all the vast commerce of Lake Erie as our just and
lawful prey. So confident were we of success and so admirable were
our arrangements that we had all assembled at St. Catharines, on the
canal, waiting in hourly anticipation the arrival of the steamer, when
the storm burst upon us in the shape of Mr. Stantons telegram to the
mayors of the lake cities to be on their guard against a Confederate
raid, which he had been notified by the governor-general of Canada
(Lord Monek) had been organized in Canada for operations on Lake
Erie. Thus, my dear admiral, with victory, and such a victory, within
our grasp, we were foiled, and so anxious were the British authorities
to keep on good terms with their detested neighbors (for they do detest
them) that the troops who were about to be removed from Port Colborne,
the Lake Erie terminus of the canal, were ordered to remain at that
place, with instructions to arrest any vessel passing through the canal
with a suspicions number of passengers on board. With our plan thus
foiled, and with the lake cities in a fever of fear and excitement, and
with the rapiyt advance of reenforcements, both naval amid military, to
reenforce the garrison at Johnsons Island against our compact little
band of 52 Confederates, we had, as a matter of course, to abandon the
design and leave Canada as soon as possible, bat to do so in a dignified
and proper manner. Wilkinson, Loyall, and I (Coleman, Kelly, and
Brest) remained in Montreal from five to ten days, giving to the Cana-
dian authorities every opportunity to arrest us, if it was thought proper
to do so, but Lord Monck was satisfied with having frustrated our plans,
and did not care to complicate the matter or to show his zeal for the
Yankees in any other shape than the very decisive one of informing on
us. And thus we came away, leaving our poor fellows to bear the
increased hardships of their dreary prison life for months to come.
	And now for the sickening part. It appears that McCuaig, whom I
believed to have been earnestly with us, became alarmed at the last
moment, when our success seemed so certain, and fearing the ultimate
bearing of it upon his own individual fortunes, involving perhaps fail.
nre, exile, loss of l)Osition and imprisonment, betrayed us to Mr. ilol-
den, a member of the provincial cabinet, who at once communicated it
to the governor.general, and hence the discovery.
	So, but for treachery, which no one can guard against, our enterprise
would have been the feature of the war, and our little Navy another
laurel wreath of glorious renown. Leaving Quebec we traveled in open
wagons and buo-o-ies throngh the wilds of Lower Canada and New
Brunswick, often looking into the houses on the Maine side of the river,
with a desire to do to them as their people do to ours; but as our policy
is different, and as we carry on the war more on principles of civiliza-
tion, the feelingwas a childish one, though the contempt one felt for
the cowardly dogs who crossed the line to avoid the dreaded draft was
only natural, and still more so when their daily papers poured suc

Page 827

	OPERATIONS OF THE CRUISERSCONFEDERATE.	827


venom on our cause and all connected with it. Taking the steamer at
the small village of Tobique, we came down the St. John River, and
at St. John we went on board the steamer Emperor, in which we
crossed the Bay of Fundy to the village of Windso~V, in Nova Scotia,
and thence by railroad to Halifax, where I volunteered for and obtained
the command of the captured steamer Chesapeake, then supposed to be
making her way to the port of St. Marys, ~ibout 70 miles to the east-
ward of Halifax, but before I could get to her with my crew and offi-
cers, with the idea of making her a regular cruiser, she had been forced
by stress of weather to put into a British port, where her arrival was
telegraphed, and, as a great excitement had been made over her novel
capture, both English and Yankees were endeavoring to get her; and
as I had but a forlorn hope of ever reaching her in a dull, heavy-sailing
collier, the attein pt was abandoned, and thus I lost my chance of a
command afloat, wheu I had invitingly open before me the prospect of
so much damage to the enemys coasting trade. At Bermuda (where
we arrived on the morning of the 17th of December in the royal mail
steamer Alpha) I found Bob Carter, of the Navy, in command of the
Navy Department blockade-running steamer Coquette, purchased by
Commander Bulloch, of the Navy, to run in naval supplies and out cot-
ton for our service. Finding some cloth on board for you, I brought it
over with me in the little steamer Presto, but b ywhom it was sent I
do not know. After a very rough and exciting passage of four days,
during which I did not have my clothes off, we succeeded in eluding
the blockading squadron and reached Wilmington in safety on the 7th
of January, our little steamer, under John Wilkinson, being the only
one of four le.~ving about the same time that succeeded in getting
into port, the others being wrecked on the coast. On the day of my
return to Richmond with important dispatches from abroad my former
position as lieutenant commanding the ordnance works was offered me
and accepted, with more work ahead of me than I can do justice to.
	I hope, my dear sir, that you have entirely recovered the use of your
leg, and that you suffer no pain or inconvenience from your wound,
and that you have recently had good news from Mrs. Buchanan. Cap-
tain Mitchell delivered your very kind message a day or two since,
for which please accept my thanks, and if I can assist you in any way
my services are entirely at your command.

KINGSTON, N. C., February 17, 1864.
	Since commencing this letter, which I have written at odd times, I
have received temporary orders to this place to do all in my power to
hasten to completion the ironclad gunboat Yeuse, now under construc-
tion here, and authority has been given me to take any steps which
may ten.d to the advancement of the very important interests involved
in her speedy completion. I was tendered the command of her, but
upon some representations being made to the Secretary that I could
advance the l)ublic service better by completing, or rather hurrying
the completion, of this vessel and the ironclad steamer Albemarle, Corn-
mander Cooke, at Halifax [N. C.], on the Roanoke River, than I could by
being confined to one vessel as her commanding officer, my orders were
so framed that I should have authority to push forward the material and
the completion of both vessels, amid I hope soon decided success will
crown my efforts, for you can judge of the amount of ~Vork ahead of
me while I still retain my command in Richmond. Woods gallant
affair in boarding, capturing, and destroying the U. S. S. Underwriter

Page 828

828 OPERATIONS OF THE CRIIISERSCONFEDERATE.

under the enemys batteries, has won for him another wreath, and I
hope a step in rank, but it has awakened the enemy to our movements
here, and it is now a race between us who shaTh have the first light-
draft ironclad afloat in the waters of easterii [North] Carolina. We
are doing our best here to be the first in the field. Please remember
me to Winder, Eggleston, and Captain Johnston, and let me hear from
you when you have nothing better to do than to acknowledge this ram-
bling, prosy letter, which, however, will, I trust, interest you, as showing
that some of us are still all ye and zealous for the good, the welfare,
and the renown of our glorious profession.
	With the hope that you may soon have it in your power to strike
another and still heavier blow at the enemy,
I remain, my dear admiral, very truly, your friend,
R D. MINOR.
Admiral FRANKLIN BUCHANAN, C. S. Navy,
Commanding Naval Forces, Mobile, Ala.


Letter from Lieutenant Murdaugh, C. S. Navy, to the Secretary of the Navy of the Confederate
States, proposing a plan of operations in the Northern Lakes.

C. S. S. BEATJFORT,
Richmond, February 7, 1863.
	SIR: I have the honor to submit the following outline of the plan of
operations proposed to be carried out on the Northern Lakes:
	The party to leave the Confederacy at the earliest possible day, to be
ready for commencing operations with the opening of navigation, which
will be probably about the middle of April.
	The commanding officer to be furnished with a letter of credit for
$100,000, although it is not presumed that more than half of this amount
will be expended.
	After reaching Canada to purchase, through the agency of some reli-
able merchant, a small steamer, say one of 200 tons, that can pass
through the Welland Canal. If practicable, to let the agent equip and
victual the vessel and collect a crew of 50 men, ostensibly with a view
to mining operations on Lake Superior. If this is not practicable the
officers will separate and collect each a party and join the vessel at
some point on Lake Erie. The object of the expedition not to be made
known to the men until the vessel is clear of the Canadian coast, when
strong inducements in the way of pay, etc., must be held out to them
for making the attempt and still stronger ones for its successful accom-
plishment. Those not willing to make the attempt to be returned to
the Canadian shore; those who are ~i~jJ1ing to be shipped into the Con-
federate service. In collecting men much judgment must be exercised
in the selections. The crew will be armed with cutlasses and revolvers.
The vessel will be provided with a number of small iron buoys to be
used as torpedoes and also the powder, fuses, etc., to ch arge and fire
them. These are to be used in the destruction of canal locks. She
must also have on board plenty of spirits of turpentine and incendiary
composition for rapid work in starting fires.
	The first point to be ainied at is Erie, Pa., the arrival there to be so
timed as to make it about 1 a. m. The steamer to be laid alongside
the IT. S. S. Michigan and that vessel to be carried by boarding with as
little noise as possible. - If there is a reasonable hope that the vesse

Page 829

	OPERATIONS OF THE cRUJSERS~eONFEDERATE	S29


has been carried without its being known beyond the vessels engaged,
both vessels will leave the harbor and proceed toward the Welland
Canal, with a view to getting the small steairier Through into Lake
Ontario before the news of the capture should have reached the Cana-
dians, who might interpose objections to her doing so should the objects
of her voyage be apparent. But if the capture is not made secretly,
then the work of burning every particle of Federal property afloat will
be immediately commenced. Even in this latter contingency the
attempt will still be made to get the small steamer into Lake Ontario,
when she, under the command of second officer of the expedition, would
have a fine field, but the most important part of her work would be to
destroy the aqueduct of the Erie Canal, which crosses the Genesee
River at Rochester, 7 miles from the lake, and the locks of a branch of
this canal at Oswego. If a passage through the Welland Canal for the
small steamer should be refused by the Canadians, both vessels would
operate in Lakes Erie, Huron, and Michigan. In Lake Erie, after
leaving the town of Erie, Bufthlo would be the first point to be visited,
the fleet of trading vessels in its harbor and the locks of the great
Erie Canal to be destroyod. The next place would be Tonawanda, dis-
tant about 30 miles from Buffalo, where there is also an entrance into
the Erie Canal, which would be destroyed. Then, coasting along the
southern shore of the lake, destroy the locks of the canals leading to
the Ohio River, four in number, and burn the vessels fallen in with.
Then pass Detroit in the night, and if possible without notice; pass
through Lake Huron and into Lake Michigan, and make for the great
city of Chicago. At Chicago burn the shipping and destroy the locks
of the Illinois and Michigan Canal, connecting Lake Michigan and the
Mississippi River. Then turn northward, and, touching at Milwaukee
and other places, but working rapidly, pass again into Lake Huron, go
to the Sault Ste. Marie, and destroy the lock of the canal of that name.
Then the vessel coald be run into Georgian Bay, at the bottom of which
is a railway connecting with the main Canadian lines, and be run ashore
and destroyed.
	Four officers will be required for this expedition. I respectfully vol-
unteer my services and ask that Lieutenants Minor, Robert Carter, and
Wood may be selected.
Very respectfully, etc.,
[WM. H. 1VIuRDAu~H,
Lieutenant, C. S. Navy.]

	NOTE.Lieutenant Wood could not be spared front duty he was per-
forming, and Lieutenant Walter R. Butt was detailed for the service,
so the party consisted of Lieutenants Murdaugh, Carter, Minor, and
Butt.

[Endorsement.]


	Copy of a letter sent to the C. S. Navy Department by W. H. Mur-
daugh. This plan was approved by the Navy Department, the Presi-
dent, and Cabinet; and Lieutenant M[urdaugh] was ordered to write
his instructions, which he did, asking for $100,000, which was collected
for him. When everything was ready for a start President Davis said
that lie thought the scheme practicable and almost sure of success,
but that it would raise such a storm about the violation of the neutrality
laws that England would be forceu to stop the building of some iron

Page 830

830 OPERATIONS OF THE eRUISERS~-CONFEDERATE.

dads which were on the stocks in England and take rigid action against
us everywhere. So the thing fell through and w4th it my great chance.
	About a year afterwards, when many attempts had been made from
Canada, the Yankees on the qui vi~e, an expedition was sent in a large
steamer with a flourish of trumpets, and of course the commander could
do nothing and had to return.
	This is a specimen of how the Navy was treated and how it was
managed.	W.H.M